# BEIR SciFact Context

## 1. Recovery of visual response of injured adult rat optic nerves treated with transglutaminase.
Failure of axons of the central nervous system in adult mammals to regenerate spontaneously after injury is attributed in part to inhibitory molecules associated with oligodendrocytes. Regeneration of central nervous system axons in fish is correlated with the presence of a transglutaminase. This enzyme dimerizes interleukin-2, and the product is cytotoxic to oligodendrocytes in vitro. Application of this nerve-derived transglutaminase to rat optic nerves, in which the injury had caused the loss of visual evoked potential response to light, promoted the recovery of that response within 6 weeks after injury. Transmission electron microscopy analysis revealed the concomitant appearance of axons in the distal stump of the optic nerve.

## 2. Induction therapy with autologous mesenchymal stem cells in living-related kidney transplants: a randomized controlled trial.
CONTEXT Antibody-based induction therapy plus calcineurin inhibitors (CNIs) reduce acute rejection rates in kidney recipients; however, opportunistic infections and toxic CNI effects remain challenging. Reportedly, mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have successfully treated graft-vs-host disease. OBJECTIVE To assess autologous MSCs as replacement of antibody induction for patients with end-stage renal disease who undergo ABO-compatible, cross-match-negative kidney transplants from a living-related donor. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS One hundred fifty-nine patients were enrolled in this single-site, prospective, open-label, randomized study from February 2008-May 2009, when recruitment was completed. INTERVENTION Patients were inoculated with marrow-derived autologous MSC (1-2 x 10(6)/kg) at kidney reperfusion and two weeks later. Fifty-three patients received standard-dose and 52 patients received low-dose CNIs (80% of standard); 51 patients in the control group received anti-IL-2 receptor antibody plus standard-dose CNIs. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The primary measure was 1-year incidence of acute rejection and renal function (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR]); the secondary measure was patient and graft survival and incidence of adverse events. RESULTS Patient and graft survival at 13 to 30 months was similar in all groups. After 6 months, 4 of 53 patients (7.5%) in the autologous MSC plus standard-dose CNI group (95% CI, 0.4%-14.7%; P = .04) and 4 of 52 patients (7.7%) in the low-dose group (95% CI, 0.5%-14.9%; P = .046) compared with 11 of 51 controls (21.6%; 95% CI, 10.5%-32.6%) had biopsy-confirmed acute rejection. None of the patients in either autologous MSC group had glucorticoid-resistant rejection, whereas 4 patients (7.8%) in the control group did (95% CI, 0.6%-15.1%; overall P = .02). Renal function recovered faster among both MSC groups showing increased eGFR levels during the first month after surgery than the control group. Patients receiving standard-dose CNI had a mean difference of 6.2 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% CI, 0.4-11.9; P=.04) and those in the low-dose CNI of 10.0 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) (95% CI, 3.8-16.2; P=.002). Also, during the 1-year follow-up, combined analysis of MSC-treated groups revealed significantly decreased risk of opportunistic infections than the control group (hazard ratio, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.20-0.85, P=.02)   CONCLUSION Among patients undergoing renal transplant, the use of autologous MSCs compared with anti-IL-2 receptor antibody induction therapy resulted in lower incidence of acute rejection, decreased risk of opportunistic infection, and better estimated renal function at 1 year. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00658073.

## 3. Microtubule sliding activity of a kinesin-8 promotes spindle assembly and spindle length control
Molecular motors play critical roles in the formation of mitotic spindles, either through controlling the stability of individual microtubules, or by crosslinking and sliding microtubule arrays. Kinesin-8 motors are best known for their regulatory roles in controlling microtubule dynamics. They contain microtubule-destabilizing activities, and restrict spindle length in a wide variety of cell types and organisms. Here, we report an antiparallel microtubule-sliding activity of the budding yeast kinesin-8, Kip3. The in vivo importance of this sliding activity was established through the identification of complementary Kip3 mutants that separate the sliding activity and microtubule-destabilizing activity. In conjunction with Cin8, a kinesin-5 family member, the sliding activity of Kip3 promotes bipolar spindle assembly and the maintenance of genome stability. We propose a slide-disassemble model where the sliding and destabilizing activity of Kip3 balance during pre-anaphase. This facilitates normal spindle assembly. However, the destabilizing activity of Kip3 dominates in late anaphase, inhibiting spindle elongation and ultimately promoting spindle disassembly.

## 4. Presynaptically Localized Cyclic GMP-Dependent Protein Kinase 1 Is a Key Determinant of Spinal Synaptic Potentiation and Pain Hypersensitivity
Synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) at spinal neurons directly communicating pain-specific inputs from the periphery to the brain has been proposed to serve as a trigger for pain hypersensitivity in pathological states. Previous studies have functionally implicated the NMDA receptor-NO pathway and the downstream second messenger, cGMP, in these processes. Because cGMP can broadly influence diverse ion-channels, kinases, and phosphodiesterases, pre- as well as post-synaptically, the precise identity of cGMP targets mediating spinal LTP, their mechanisms of action, and their locus in the spinal circuitry are still unclear. Here, we found that Protein Kinase G1 (PKG-I) localized presynaptically in nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in the expression of spinal LTP. Using the Cre-lox P system, we generated nociceptor-specific knockout mice lacking PKG-I specifically in presynaptic terminals of nociceptors in the spinal cord, but not in post-synaptic neurons or elsewhere (SNS-PKG-I(-/-) mice). Patch clamp recordings showed that activity-induced LTP at identified synapses between nociceptors and spinal neurons projecting to the periaqueductal grey (PAG) was completely abolished in SNS-PKG-I(-/-) mice, although basal synaptic transmission was not affected. Analyses of synaptic failure rates and paired-pulse ratios indicated a role for presynaptic PKG-I in regulating the probability of neurotransmitter release. Inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor 1 and myosin light chain kinase were recruited as key phosphorylation targets of presynaptic PKG-I in nociceptive neurons. Finally, behavioural analyses in vivo showed marked defects in SNS-PKG-I(-/-) mice in several models of activity-induced nociceptive hypersensitivity, and pharmacological studies identified a clear contribution of PKG-I expressed in spinal terminals of nociceptors. Our results thus indicate that presynaptic mechanisms involving an increase in release probability from nociceptors are operational in the expression of synaptic LTP on spinal-PAG projection neurons and that PKG-I localized in presynaptic nociceptor terminals plays an essential role in this process to regulate pain sensitivity.

## 5. NMR structural and kinetic characterization of a homeodomain diffusing and hopping on nonspecific DNA.
Nonspecific protein-DNA interactions are inherently dynamic and involve both diffusion of the protein along the DNA and hopping of the protein from one DNA molecule or segment to another. Understanding how gene regulatory proteins interact nonspecifically with DNA in terms of both structure and dynamics is challenging because the experimental observables are an ensemble average of many rapidly exchanging states. By using a variety of NMR spectroscopic techniques, including relaxation analysis, paramagnetic relaxation enhancement, and residual dipolar couplings, we have characterized structural and kinetic aspects of the interaction of the HoxD9 homeodomain with a nonspecific, 24-bp DNA duplex in a system in which the protein is not constrained to any particular site. The data reveal that HoxD9 binds to nonspecific DNA with the same binding mode and orientation as that observed in the specific complex. The mobility, however, of Arg side-chains contacting the DNA is increased in the nonspecific complex relative to the specific one. The kinetics of intermolecular translocation between two different nonspecific DNA molecules have also been analyzed and reveal that at high DNA concentrations (such as those present in vivo) direct transfer from one nonspecific complex to another nonspecific DNA molecule occurs without going through the intermediary of free protein. This finding provides a simple mechanism for accelerating the target search in vivo for the specific site in a sea of nonspecific sites by permitting more effective sampling of available DNA sites as the protein jumps from one segment to another.

## 6. Proteomic identification of a novel isoform of collapsin response mediator protein-2 in spinal nerves peripheral to dorsal root ganglia.
Primary afferent fibers are originated from pseudounipolar sensory cells in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and transmit external stimuli received in the skin to the spinal cord. Here we undertook a proteomic approach to uncover the polarity of primary afferent fibers. Lumbar spinal nerve segments, peripheral and central to DRG, were dissected from 5-wk-old Wistar rats and the lysates were subjected to large-sized 2-DE at pH 5-6. Among approximately 800 protein spots detected in the central and peripheral fractions, one of the unique spots in the peripheral fraction with MW of 60 kDa and pI of 5.6 was identified as an isoform of collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2) by MALDI-TOF MS and Western blots with anti-CRMP-2 antibodies that recognize 1-17 and 486-528 residues. Since this novel spot was detected only in the peripheral fraction, but not in the central fraction, DRG, and other regions of the brain, it was named periCRMP-2. The C-terminal fragment of CRMP-2 was not detected in periCRMP-2 by MS analyses. Expression of periCRMP-2 decreased following sciatic nerve injury. These results suggest that periCRMP-2 is a C-terminal truncated isoform polarized in the peripheral side of spinal nerves and may be involved in nerve degeneration and regeneration.

## 7. Synaptic glutamate release by ventromedial hypothalamic neurons is part of the neurocircuitry that prevents hypoglycemia.
The importance of neuropeptides in the hypothalamus has been experimentally established. Due to difficulties in assessing function in vivo, the roles of the fast-acting neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA are largely unknown. Synaptic vesicular transporters (VGLUTs for glutamate and VGAT for GABA) are required for vesicular uptake and, consequently, synaptic release of neurotransmitters. Ventromedial hypothalamic (VMH) neurons are predominantly glutamatergic and express VGLUT2. To evaluate the role of glutamate release from VMH neurons, we generated mice lacking VGLUT2 selectively in SF1 neurons (a major subset of VMH neurons). These mice have hypoglycemia during fasting secondary to impaired fasting-induced increases in the glucose-raising pancreatic hormone glucagon and impaired induction in liver of mRNAs encoding PGC-1alpha and the gluconeogenic enzymes PEPCK and G6Pase. Similarly, these mice have defective counterregulatory responses to insulin-induced hypoglycemia and 2-deoxyglucose (an antimetabolite). Thus, glutamate release from VMH neurons is an important component of the neurocircuitry that functions to prevent hypoglycemia.

## 8. Vitamins E and C in the prevention of prostate and total cancer in men: the Physicians' Health Study II randomized controlled trial.
CONTEXT Many individuals take vitamins in the hopes of preventing chronic diseases such as cancer, and vitamins E and C are among the most common individual supplements. A large-scale randomized trial suggested that vitamin E may reduce risk of prostate cancer; however, few trials have been powered to address this relationship. No previous trial in men at usual risk has examined vitamin C alone in the prevention of cancer. OBJECTIVE To evaluate whether long-term vitamin E or C supplementation decreases risk of prostate and total cancer events among men. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS The Physicians' Health Study II is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled factorial trial of vitamins E and C that began in 1997 and continued until its scheduled completion on August 31, 2007. A total of 14,641 male physicians in the United States initially aged 50 years or older, including 1307 men with a history of prior cancer at randomization, were enrolled. INTERVENTION Individual supplements of 400 IU of vitamin E every other day and 500 mg of vitamin C daily. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Prostate and total cancer. RESULTS During a mean follow-up of 8.0 years, there were 1008 confirmed incident cases of prostate cancer and 1943 total cancers. Compared with placebo, vitamin E had no effect on the incidence of prostate cancer (active and placebo vitamin E groups, 9.1 and 9.5 events per 1000 person-years; hazard ratio [HR], 0.97; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.85-1.09; P = .58) or total cancer (active and placebo vitamin E groups, 17.8 and 17.3 cases per 1000 person-years; HR, 1.04; 95% CI, 0.95-1.13; P = .41). There was also no significant effect of vitamin C on total cancer (active and placebo vitamin C groups, 17.6 and 17.5 events per 1000 person-years; HR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.92-1.10; P = .86) or prostate cancer (active and placebo vitamin C groups, 9.4 and 9.2 cases per 1000 person-years; HR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.90-1.15; P = .80). Neither vitamin E nor vitamin C had a significant effect on colorectal, lung, or other site-specific cancers. Adjustment for adherence and exclusion of the first 4 or 6 years of follow-up did not alter the results. Stratification by various cancer risk factors demonstrated no significant modification of the effect of vitamin E on prostate cancer risk or either agent on total cancer risk. CONCLUSIONS In this large, long-term trial of male physicians, neither vitamin E nor C supplementation reduced the risk of prostate or total cancer. These data provide no support for the use of these supplements for the prevention of cancer in middle-aged and older men. TRIAL REGISTRATION clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00270647.

## 9. SWI/SNF-Brg1 regulates self-renewal and occupies core pluripotency-related genes in embryonic stem cells.
The SWI/SNF-Brg1 chromatin remodeling protein plays critical roles in cell-cycle control and differentiation through regulation of gene expression. Loss of Brg1 in mice results in early embryonic lethality, and recent studies have implicated a role for Brg1 in somatic stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. However, little is known about Brg1 function in preimplantation embryos and embryonic stem (ES) cells. Here we report that Brg1 is required for ES cell self-renewal and pluripotency. RNA interference-mediated knockdown of Brg1 in blastocysts caused aberrant expression of Oct4 and Nanog. In ES cells, knockdown of Brg1 resulted in phenotypic changes indicative of differentiation, downregulation of self-renewal and pluripotency genes (e.g., Oct4, Sox2, Sall4, Rest), and upregulation of differentiation genes. Using genome-wide promoter analysis (chromatin immunoprecipitation) we found that Brg1 occupied the promoters of key pluripotency-related genes, including Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, Sall4, Rest, and Polycomb group (PcG) proteins. Moreover, Brg1 co-occupied a subset of Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, and PcG protein target genes. These results demonstrate an important role for Brg1 in regulating self-renewal and pluripotency in ES cells.

## 10. Ribosome-Mediated Specificity in Hox mRNA Translation and Vertebrate Tissue Patterning
Historically, the ribosome has been viewed as a complex ribozyme with constitutive rather than regulatory capacity in mRNA translation. Here we identify mutations of the Ribosomal Protein L38 (Rpl38) gene in mice exhibiting surprising tissue-specific patterning defects, including pronounced homeotic transformations of the axial skeleton. In Rpl38 mutant embryos, global protein synthesis is unchanged; however the translation of a select subset of Homeobox mRNAs is perturbed. Our data reveal that RPL38 facilitates 80S complex formation on these mRNAs as a regulatory component of the ribosome to confer transcript-specific translational control. We further show that Rpl38 expression is markedly enriched in regions of the embryo where loss-of-function phenotypes occur. Unexpectedly, a ribosomal protein (RP) expression screen reveals dynamic regulation of individual RPs within the vertebrate embryo. Collectively, these findings suggest that RP activity may be highly regulated to impart a new layer of specificity in the control of gene expression and mammalian development.

## 11. Effect of screening on cervical cancer mortality in England and Wales: analysis of trends with an age period cohort model.
The number of women dying from cervical cancer in 1997 was 7% lower than in 1996 and has fallen by over 25% since 1992.1 Such rapid change must be at least partly due to cervical screening, although strong cohort effects have caused large fluctuations in cervical mortality in the past.2 We modelled mortality data, taking into account the effects of age and year of birth and looking for trends in time within four age groups to estimate the beneficial effects of cervical screening. We obtained mortality data, in 5 year age bands, from death registrations in England and Wales and calculated rates using mid-year population estimates. Mortality since 1993 was adjusted upwards by 4% because of changes in classification of cause of death.3  We modelled the data assuming that the age specific mortality is the product of a smoothly varying age effect, birth cohort effect, and age dependent …

## 12. Computer assisted learning in undergraduate medical education.
It is becoming “a truth universally acknowledged” that the education of undergraduate medical students will be enhanced through the use of computer assisted learning. Access to the wide range of online options illustrated in the figure must surely make learning more exciting, effective, and likely to be retained. This assumption is potentially but by no means inevitably correct. ### Box 1: Why fund computer assisted learning? Computer assisted learning is inevitable —Individual lecturers and departments are already beginning to introduce a wide range of computer based applications, sometimes in a haphazard way. Planned and coordinated development is better than indiscriminate expansion  It is convenient and flexible —Courses supported by computer assisted learning applications may require fewer face to face lectures and seminars and place fewer geographical and temporal constraints on staff and students. Students at peripheral hospitals or primary care centres may benefit in particular  Unique presentational benefits —Computer presentation is particularly suited to subjects that are visually intensive, detail oriented, and difficult to conceptualise, such as complex biochemical processes or microscopic images.1 Furthermore, “virtual” cases may reduce the need to use animal or human tissue in learning  Personalised learning —Each learner can progress at his or her preferred pace. They can repeat, interrupt, and resume at will, which may have particular advantages for weaker students  Economies of scale —Once an application has been set up, the incremental cost of offering it to additional students is relatively small  Competitive advantage —Potential applicants may use the quality of information technology to discriminate between medical schools. A “leading edge” virtual campus is likely to attract good students  Achieves the ultimate goal of higher education —The goal is to link people into learning communities. Computer applications, especially the internet and world wide web, are an extremely efficient way of doing this2  Expands pedagogical horizons —The most controversial argument for … RETURN TO TEXT

## 13. Coordinated regulation of sulfur and phospholipid metabolism reflects the importance of methylation in the growth of yeast
A yeast strain lacking Met4p, the primary transcriptional regulator of the sulfur assimilation pathway, cannot synthesize methionine. This apparently simple auxotroph did not grow well in rich media containing excess methionine, forming small colonies on yeast extract/peptone/dextrose plates. Faster-growing large colonies were abundant when overnight cultures were plated, suggesting that spontaneous suppressors of the growth defect arise with high frequency. To identify the suppressor mutations, we used genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism and standard genetic analyses. The most common suppressors were loss-of-function mutations in OPI1, encoding a transcriptional repressor of phospholipid metabolism. Using a new system that allows rapid and specific degradation of Met4p, we could study the dynamic expression of all genes following loss of Met4p. Experiments using this system with and without Opi1p showed that Met4 activates and Opi1p represses genes that maintain levels of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), the substrate for most methyltransferase reactions. Cells lacking Met4p grow normally when either SAM is added to the media or one of the SAM synthetase genes is overexpressed. SAM is used as a methyl donor in three Opi1p-regulated reactions to create the abundant membrane phospholipid, phosphatidylcholine. Our results show that rapidly growing cells require significant methylation, likely for the biosynthesis of phospholipids.

## 14. The HIV Treatment Gap: Estimates of the Financial Resources Needed versus Available for Scale-Up of Antiretroviral Therapy in 97 Countries from 2015 to 2020
BACKGROUND The World Health Organization (WHO) released revised guidelines in 2015 recommending that all people living with HIV, regardless of CD4 count, initiate antiretroviral therapy (ART) upon diagnosis. However, few studies have projected the global resources needed for rapid scale-up of ART. Under the Health Policy Project, we conducted modeling analyses for 97 countries to estimate eligibility for and numbers on ART from 2015 to 2020, along with the facility-level financial resources required. We compared the estimated financial requirements to estimated funding available. METHODS AND FINDINGS Current coverage levels and future need for treatment were based on country-specific epidemiological and demographic data. Simulated annual numbers of individuals on treatment were derived from three scenarios: (1) continuation of countries' current policies of eligibility for ART, (2) universal adoption of aspects of the WHO 2013 eligibility guidelines, and (3) expanded eligibility as per the WHO 2015 guidelines and meeting the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS "90-90-90" ART targets. We modeled uncertainty in the annual resource requirements for antiretroviral drugs, laboratory tests, and facility-level personnel and overhead. We estimate that 25.7 (95% CI 25.5, 26.0) million adults and 1.57 (95% CI 1.55, 1.60) million children could receive ART by 2020 if countries maintain current eligibility plans and increase coverage based on historical rates, which may be ambitious. If countries uniformly adopt aspects of the WHO 2013 guidelines, 26.5 (95% CI 26.0 27.0) million adults and 1.53 (95% CI 1.52, 1.55) million children could be on ART by 2020. Under the 90-90-90 scenario, 30.4 (95% CI 30.1, 30.7) million adults and 1.68 (95% CI 1.63, 1.73) million children could receive treatment by 2020. The facility-level financial resources needed for scaling up ART in these countries from 2015 to 2020 are estimated to be US$45.8 (95% CI 45.4, 46.2) billion under the current scenario, US$48.7 (95% CI 47.8, 49.6) billion under the WHO 2013 scenario, and US$52.5 (95% CI 51.4, 53.6) billion under the 90-90-90 scenario. After projecting recent external and domestic funding trends, the estimated 6-y financing gap ranges from US$19.8 billion to US$25.0 billion, depending on the costing scenario and the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief contribution level, with the gap for ART commodities alone ranging from US$14.0 to US$16.8 billion. The study is limited by excluding above-facility and other costs essential to ART service delivery and by the availability and quality of country- and region-specific data. CONCLUSIONS The projected number of people receiving ART across three scenarios suggests that countries are unlikely to meet the 90-90-90 treatment target (81% of people living with HIV on ART by 2020) unless they adopt a test-and-offer approach and increase ART coverage. Our results suggest that future resource needs for ART scale-up are smaller than stated elsewhere but still significantly threaten the sustainability of the global HIV response without additional resource mobilization from domestic or innovative financing sources or efficiency gains. As the world moves towards adopting the WHO 2015 guidelines, advances in technology, including the introduction of lower-cost, highly effective antiretroviral regimens, whose value are assessed here, may prove to be "game changers" that allow more people to be on ART with the resources available.

## 15. Cost effectiveness of ward based non-invasive ventilation for acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: economic analysis of randomised controlled trial.
OBJECTIVE To evaluate the cost effectiveness of standard treatment with and without the addition of ward based non-invasive ventilation in patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. DESIGN Incremental cost effectiveness analysis of a randomised controlled trial. SETTING Medical wards in 14 hospitals in the United Kingdom. PARTICIPANTS The trial comprised 236 patients admitted to hospital with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and mild to moderate acidosis (pH 7.25-7.35) secondary to respiratory failure. The economic analysis compared the costs of treatment that these patients received after randomisation. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Incremental cost per in-hospital death. RESULTS 24/118 died in the group receiving standard treatment and 12/118 in the group receiving non-invasive ventilation (P=0.05). Allocation to the group receiving non-invasive ventilation was associated with a reduction in costs of 49362 pounds sterling (78741 dollars; 73109 euros), mainly through reduced use of intensive care units. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio was -645 pounds sterling per death avoided (95% confidence interval -2310 pounds sterling to 386 pounds sterling), indicating a dominant (more effective and less costly) strategy. Modelling of these data indicates that a typical UK hospital providing a non-invasive ventilation service will avoid six deaths and three to nine admissions to intensive care units per year, with an associated cost reduction of 12000-53000 pounds sterling per year. CONCLUSIONS Non-invasive ventilation is a highly cost effective treatment that both reduced total costs and improved mortality in hospital.

## 16. Human SNP Links Differential Outcomes in Inflammatory and Infectious Disease to a FOXO3-Regulated Pathway
The clinical course and eventual outcome, or prognosis, of complex diseases varies enormously between affected individuals. This variability critically determines the impact a disease has on a patient's life but is very poorly understood. Here, we exploit existing genome-wide association study data to gain insight into the role of genetics in prognosis. We identify a noncoding polymorphism in FOXO3A (rs12212067: T > G) at which the minor (G) allele, despite not being associated with disease susceptibility, is associated with a milder course of Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis and with increased risk of severe malaria. Minor allele carriage is shown to limit inflammatory responses in monocytes via a FOXO3-driven pathway, which through TGFβ1 reduces production of proinflammatory cytokines, including TNFα, and increases production of anti-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-10. Thus, we uncover a shared genetic contribution to prognosis in distinct diseases that operates via a FOXO3-driven pathway modulating inflammatory responses.

## 17. Patient Outcomes with Teaching Versus Nonteaching Healthcare: A Systematic Review
Background  Extensive debate exists in the healthcare community over whether outcomes of medical care at teaching hospitals and other healthcare units are better or worse than those at the respective nonteaching ones. Thus, our goal was to systematically evaluate the evidence pertaining to this question. Methods and Findings  We reviewed all studies that compared teaching versus nonteaching healthcare structures for mortality or any other patient outcome, regardless of health condition. Studies were retrieved from PubMed, contact with experts, and literature cross-referencing. Data were extracted on setting, patients, data sources, author affiliations, definition of compared groups, types of diagnoses considered, adjusting covariates, and estimates of effect for mortality and for each other outcome. Overall, 132 eligible studies were identified, including 93 on mortality and 61 on other eligible outcomes (22 addressed both). Synthesis of the available adjusted estimates on mortality yielded a summary relative risk of 0.96 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.93–1.00) for teaching versus nonteaching healthcare structures and 1.04 (95% CI, 0.99–1.10) for minor teaching versus nonteaching ones. There was considerable heterogeneity between studies (I2 = 72% for the main analysis). Results were similar in studies using clinical and those using administrative databases. No differences were seen in the 14 studies fully adjusting for volume/experience, severity, and comorbidity (relative risk 1.01). Smaller studies did not differ in their results from larger studies. Differences were seen for some diagnoses (e.g., significantly better survival for breast cancer and cerebrovascular accidents in teaching hospitals and significantly better survival from cholecystectomy in nonteaching hospitals), but these were small in magnitude. Other outcomes were diverse, but typically teaching healthcare structures did not do better than nonteaching ones. Conclusions  The available data are limited by their nonrandomized design, but overall they do not suggest that a healthcare facility's teaching status on its own markedly improves or worsens patient outcomes. Differences for specific diseases cannot be excluded, but are likely to be small.

## 18. Structure and function of the blood–brain barrier
Neural signalling within the central nervous system (CNS) requires a highly controlled microenvironment. Cells at three key interfaces form barriers between the blood and the CNS: the blood-brain barrier (BBB), blood-CSF barrier and the arachnoid barrier. The BBB at the level of brain microvessel endothelium is the major site of blood-CNS exchange. The structure and function of the BBB is summarised, the physical barrier formed by the endothelial tight junctions, and the transport barrier resulting from membrane transporters and vesicular mechanisms. The roles of associated cells are outlined, especially the endfeet of astrocytic glial cells, and pericytes and microglia. The embryonic development of the BBB, and changes in pathology are described. The BBB is subject to short and long-term regulation, which may be disturbed in pathology. Any programme for drug discovery or delivery, to target or avoid the CNS, needs to consider the special features of the BBB.

## 19. N348I in the Connection Domain of HIV-1 Reverse Transcriptase Confers Zidovudine and Nevirapine Resistance
Background The catalytically active 66-kDa subunit of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) reverse transcriptase (RT) consists of DNA polymerase, connection, and ribonuclease H (RNase H) domains. Almost all known RT inhibitor resistance mutations identified to date map to the polymerase domain of the enzyme. However, the connection and RNase H domains are not routinely analysed in clinical samples and none of the genotyping assays available for patient management sequence the entire RT coding region. The British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS (the Centre) genotypes clinical isolates up to codon 400 in RT, and our retrospective statistical analyses of the Centre’s database have identified an N348I mutation in the RT connection domain in treatment-experienced individuals. The objective of this multidisciplinary study was to establish the in vivo relevance of this mutation and its role in drug resistance. Methods and Findings The prevalence of N348I in clinical isolates, the time taken for it to emerge under selective drug pressure, and its association with changes in viral load, specific drug treatment, and known drug resistance mutations was analysed from genotypes, viral loads, and treatment histories from the Centre’s database. N348I increased in prevalence from below 1% in 368 treatmentnao ¨ve individuals to 12.1% in 1,009 treatment-experienced patients (p ¼ 7.7 3 10 � 12 ). N348I appeared early in therapy and was highly associated with thymidine analogue mutations (TAMs) M41L and T215Y/F (p , 0.001), the lamivudine resistance mutations M184V/I (p , 0.001), and non-nucleoside RTI (NNRTI) resistance mutations K103N and Y181C/I (p , 0.001). The association with TAMs and NNRTI resistance mutations was consistent with the selection of N348I in patients treated with regimens that included both zidovudine and nevirapine (odds ratio 2.62, 95% confidence interval 1.43–4.81). The appearance of N348I was associated with a significant increase in viral load (p , 0.001), which was as large as the viral load increases observed for any of the TAMs. However, this analysis did not account for the simultaneous selection of other RT or protease inhibitor resistance mutations on viral load. To delineate the role of this mutation in RT inhibitor resistance, N348I was introduced into HIV-1 molecular clones containing different genetic backbones. N348I decreased zidovudine susceptibility 2- to 4-fold in the context of wildtype HIV-1 or when combined with TAMs. N348I also decreased susceptibility to nevirapine (7.4fold) and efavirenz (2.5-fold) and significantly potentiated resistance to these drugs when combined with K103N. Biochemical analyses of recombinant RT containing N348I provide supporting evidence for the role of this mutation in zidovudine and NNRTI resistance and give some insight into the molecular mechanism of resistance. Conclusions

## 20. Transient inactivation of Rb and ARF yields regenerative cells from postmitotic mammalian muscle.
An outstanding biological question is why tissue regeneration in mammals is limited, whereas urodele amphibians and teleost fish regenerate major structures, largely by cell cycle reentry. Upon inactivation of Rb, proliferation of postmitotic urodele skeletal muscle is induced, whereas in mammalian muscle this mechanism does not exist. We postulated that a tumor suppressor present in mammals but absent in regenerative vertebrates, the Ink4a product ARF (alternative reading frame), is a regeneration suppressor. Concomitant inactivation of Arf and Rb led to mammalian muscle cell cycle reentry, loss of differentiation properties, and upregulation of cytokinetic machinery. Single postmitotic myocytes were isolated by laser micro-dissection-catapulting, and transient suppression of Arf and Rb yielded myoblast colonies that retained the ability to differentiate and fuse into myofibers upon transplantation in vivo. These results show that differentiation of mammalian cells is reversed by inactivation of Arf and Rb and support the hypothesis that Arf evolved at the expense of regeneration.

## 21. Supplementary information: ‘MesoRD User’s Guide ’ and other
UNLABELLED MesoRD is a tool for stochastic simulation of chemical reactions and diffusion. In particular, it is an implementation of the next subvolume method, which is an exact method to simulate the Markov process corresponding to the reaction-diffusion master equation. AVAILABILITY MesoRD is free software, written in C++ and licensed under the GNU general public license (GPL). MesoRD runs on Linux, Mac OS X, NetBSD, Solaris and Windows XP. It can be downloaded from http://mesord.sourceforge.net. CONTACT johan.elf@icm.uu.se; johan.hattne@embl-hamburg.de   SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 'MesoRD User's Guide' and other documents are available at http://mesord.sourceforge.net.

## 22. Article
IBD is characterized by uncontrolled immune responses in inflamed mucosa, with dominance of IL-17-producing cells and deficiency of Treg cells. The aim of this study was to explore the effect and mechanisms of RA, the ligand of RARalpha, on immune responses in human and murine colitis. Colonic biopsies from patients with UC were cultured and treated with RA as the agonist of RARalpha or LE135 as the antagonist of RARalpha. Expressions of IL-17 and FOXP3 were detected by immunohistochemistry. Murine colitis was induced by intrarectal administration with TNBS at Day 1. Mice were then i.p.-treated with RA or LE135 daily for 7 days. Cytokine levels in the cultures of mouse LPMCs were measured. Expressions of FOXP3 and IL-17 in colon tissues or MLN were detected by immunohistological analysis. Body weight and colon inflammation were evaluated. RA treatment up-regulated FOXP3 expression and down-regulated IL-17 expression in colon biopsies of patients and in colon tissues and MLN of mice with colitis compared with controls. LPMCs from RA-treated mice produced lower levels of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-17) but more regulatory cytokines (IL-10, TGF-beta) compared with that of untreated mice. LE135 showed the opposite effect of RA. Furthermore, RA ameliorated TNBS-induced colitis in a dose-dependent manner, as seen by improved body weight and colon inflammation. RA down-regulates colon inflammatory responses in patients with IBD in vitro and in murine colitis in vivo, representing a potential therapeutic approach in IBD treatment.

## 23. Birth Size and Breast Cancer Risk: Re-analysis of Individual Participant Data from 32 Studies
BACKGROUND Birth size, perhaps a proxy for prenatal environment, might be a correlate of subsequent breast cancer risk, but findings from epidemiological studies have been inconsistent. We re-analysed individual participant data from published and unpublished studies to obtain more precise estimates of the magnitude and shape of the birth size-breast cancer association. METHODS AND FINDINGS Studies were identified through computer-assisted and manual searches, and personal communication with investigators. Individual participant data from 32 studies, comprising 22,058 breast cancer cases, were obtained. Random effect models were used, if appropriate, to combine study-specific estimates of effect. Birth weight was positively associated with breast cancer risk in studies based on birth records (pooled relative risk [RR] per one standard deviation [SD] [= 0.5 kg] increment in birth weight: 1.06; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.02-1.09) and parental recall when the participants were children (1.02; 95% CI 0.99-1.05), but not in those based on adult self-reports, or maternal recall during the woman's adulthood (0.98; 95% CI 0.95-1.01) (p for heterogeneity between data sources = 0.003). Relative to women who weighed 3.000-3.499 kg, the risk was 0.96 (CI 0.80-1.16) in those who weighed < 2.500 kg, and 1.12 (95% CI 1.00-1.25) in those who weighed > or = 4.000 kg (p for linear trend = 0.001) in birth record data. Birth length and head circumference from birth records were also positively associated with breast cancer risk (pooled RR per one SD increment: 1.06 [95% CI 1.03-1.10] and 1.09 [95% CI 1.03-1.15], respectively). Simultaneous adjustment for these three birth size variables showed that length was the strongest independent predictor of risk. The birth size effects did not appear to be confounded or mediated by established breast cancer risk factors and were not modified by age or menopausal status. The cumulative incidence of breast cancer per 100 women by age 80 y in the study populations was estimated to be 10.0, 10.0, 10.4, and 11.5 in those who were, respectively, in the bottom, second, third, and top fourths of the birth length distribution. CONCLUSIONS This pooled analysis of individual participant data is consistent with birth size, and in particular birth length, being an independent correlate of breast cancer risk in adulthood.

## 24. Effect of physical activity on cognitive function in older adults at risk for Alzheimer disease: a randomized trial.
CONTEXT Many observational studies have shown that physical activity reduces the risk of cognitive decline; however, evidence from randomized trials is lacking. OBJECTIVE To determine whether physical activity reduces the rate of cognitive decline among older adults at risk. DESIGN AND SETTING Randomized controlled trial of a 24-week physical activity intervention conducted between 2004 and 2007 in metropolitan Perth, Western Australia. Assessors of cognitive function were blinded to group membership. PARTICIPANTS We recruited volunteers who reported memory problems but did not meet criteria for dementia. Three hundred eleven individuals aged 50 years or older were screened for eligibility, 89 were not eligible, and 52 refused to participate. A total of 170 participants were randomized and 138 participants completed the 18-month assessment. INTERVENTION Participants were randomly allocated to an education and usual care group or to a 24-week home-based program of physical activity. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE Change in Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog) scores (possible range, 0-70) over 18 months. RESULTS In an intent-to-treat analysis, participants in the intervention group improved 0.26 points (95% confidence interval, -0.89 to 0.54) and those in the usual care group deteriorated 1.04 points (95% confidence interval, 0.32 to 1.82) on the ADAS-Cog at the end of the intervention. The absolute difference of the outcome measure between the intervention and control groups was -1.3 points (95% confidence interval,-2.38 to -0.22) at the end of the intervention. At 18 months, participants in the intervention group improved 0.73 points (95% confidence interval, -1.27 to 0.03) on the ADAS-Cog, and those in the usual care group improved 0.04 points (95% confidence interval, -0.46 to 0.88). Word list delayed recall and Clinical Dementia Rating sum of boxes improved modestly as well, whereas word list total immediate recall, digit symbol coding, verbal fluency, Beck depression score, and Medical Outcomes 36-Item Short-Form physical and mental component summaries did not change significantly. CONCLUSIONS In this study of adults with subjective memory impairment, a 6-month program of physical activity provided a modest improvement in cognition over an 18-month follow-up period. TRIAL REGISTRATION anzctr.org.au Identifier: ACTRN12605000136606.

## 25. Comparative determinants of 4-year cardiovascular event rates in stable outpatients at risk of or with atherothrombosis.
CONTEXT Clinicians and trialists have difficulty with identifying which patients are highest risk for cardiovascular events. Prior ischemic events, polyvascular disease, and diabetes mellitus have all been identified as predictors of ischemic events, but their comparative contributions to future risk remain unclear. OBJECTIVE To categorize the risk of cardiovascular events in stable outpatients with various initial manifestations of atherothrombosis using simple clinical descriptors. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS Outpatients with coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular disease, or peripheral arterial disease or with multiple risk factors for atherothrombosis were enrolled in the global Reduction of Atherothrombosis for Continued Health (REACH) Registry and were followed up for as long as 4 years. Patients from 3647 centers in 29 countries were enrolled between 2003 and 2004 and followed up until 2008. Final database lock was in April 2009. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Rates of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and stroke. RESULTS A total of 45,227 patients with baseline data were included in this 4-year analysis. During the follow-up period, a total of 5481 patients experienced at least 1 event, including 2315 with cardiovascular death, 1228 with myocardial infarction, 1898 with stroke, and 40 with both a myocardial infarction and stroke on the same day. Among patients with atherothrombosis, those with a prior history of ischemic events at baseline (n = 21,890) had the highest rate of subsequent ischemic events (18.3%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 17.4%-19.1%); patients with stable coronary, cerebrovascular, or peripheral artery disease (n = 15,264) had a lower risk (12.2%; 95% CI, 11.4%-12.9%); and patients without established atherothrombosis but with risk factors only (n = 8073) had the lowest risk (9.1%; 95% CI, 8.3%-9.9%) (P < .001 for all comparisons). In addition, in multivariable modeling, the presence of diabetes (hazard ratio [HR], 1.44; 95% CI, 1.36-1.53; P < .001), an ischemic event in the previous year (HR, 1.71; 95% CI, 1.57-1.85; P < .001), and polyvascular disease (HR, 1.99; 95% CI, 1.78-2.24; P < .001) each were associated with a significantly higher risk of the primary end point. CONCLUSION Clinical descriptors can assist clinicians in identifying high-risk patients within the broad range of risk for outpatients with atherothrombosis.

## 26. The association between sterilizing activity and drug distribution into tuberculosis lesions
Finding new treatment-shortening antibiotics to improve cure rates and curb the alarming emergence of drug resistance is the major objective of tuberculosis (TB) drug development. Using a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry imaging suite in a biosafety containment facility, we show that the key sterilizing drugs rifampicin and pyrazinamide efficiently penetrate the sites of TB infection in lung lesions. Rifampicin even accumulates in necrotic caseum, a critical lesion site where persisting tubercle bacilli reside. In contrast, moxifloxacin, which is active in vitro against a subpopulation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis that persists in specific niches under drug pressure and has achieved treatment shortening in mice, does not diffuse well in caseum, concordant with its failure to shorten therapy in recent clinical trials. We suggest that such differential spatial distribution and kinetics of accumulation in lesions may create temporal and spatial windows of monotherapy in specific niches, allowing the gradual development of multidrug-resistant TB. We propose an alternative working model to prioritize new antibiotic regimens based on quantitative and spatial distribution of TB drugs in the major lesion types found in human lungs. The finding that lesion penetration may contribute to treatment outcome has wide implications for TB.

## 27. Large-Scale Movements of IF3 and tRNA during Bacterial Translation Initiation
In bacterial translational initiation, three initiation factors (IFs 1-3) enable the selection of initiator tRNA and the start codon in the P site of the 30S ribosomal subunit. Here, we report 11 single-particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) reconstructions of the complex of bacterial 30S subunit with initiator tRNA, mRNA, and IFs 1-3, representing different steps along the initiation pathway. IF1 provides key anchoring points for IF2 and IF3, thereby enhancing their activities. IF2 positions a domain in an extended conformation appropriate for capturing the formylmethionyl moiety charged on tRNA. IF3 and tRNA undergo large conformational changes to facilitate the accommodation of the formylmethionyl-tRNA (fMet-tRNA(fMet)) into the P site for start codon recognition.

## 28. Specific deficit of the ON response in visual transmission by targeted disruption of the mGIuR6 gene
Taking advantage of the restricted expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 6 (mGluR6) in retinal ON bipolar cells, we generated knockout mice lacking mGluR6 expression. The homozygous mutant mice showed a loss of ON responses but unchanged OFF responses to light. The mutant mice displayed no obvious changes in retinal cell organization nor in the projection of optic fibers to the brain. Furthermore, the mGluR6-deficient mice showed visual behavioral responses to light stimulation as examined by shuttle box avoidance behavior experiments using light exposure as a conditioned stimulus. The results demonstrate that mGluR6 is essential in synaptic transmission to the ON bipolar cell and that the OFF response provides an important means for transmitting visual information.

## 29. Intrauterine environments and breast cancer risk: meta-analysis and systematic review
INTRODUCTION Various perinatal factors, including birth weight, birth order, maternal age, gestational age, twin status, and parental smoking, have been postulated to affect breast cancer risk in daughters by altering the hormonal environment of the developing fetal mammary glands. Despite ample biologic plausibility, epidemiologic studies to date have yielded conflicting results. We investigated the associations between perinatal factors and subsequent breast cancer risk through meta-analyses. METHODS We reviewed breast cancer studies published from January 1966 to February 2007 that included data on birth weight, birth order, maternal age, gestational age, twin status, and maternal or paternal smoking. Meta-analyses using random effect models were employed to summarize the results. RESULTS We found that heavier birth weights were associated with increased breast cancer risk, with studies involving five categories of birth weight identifying odds ratios (ORs) of 1.24 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.04 to 1.48) for 4,000 g or more and 1.15 (95% CI 1.04 to 1.26) for 3,500 g to 3,999 g, relative to a birth weight of 2,500 to 2,599 g. These studies provided no support for a J-shaped relationship of birthweight to risk. Support for an association with birthweight was also derived from studies based on three birth weight categories (OR 1.15 [95% CI 1.01 to 1.31] for > or =4,000 g relative to <3,000 g) and two birth weight categories (OR 1.09 [95% CI 1.02 to 1.18] for > or =3,000 g relative to <3,000 g). Women born to older mothers and twins were also at some increased risk, but the results were heterogeneous across studies and publication years. Birth order, prematurity, and maternal smoking were unrelated to breast cancer risk. CONCLUSION Our findings provide some support for the hypothesis that in utero exposures reflective of higher endogenous hormone levels could affect risk for development of breast cancer in adulthood.

## 30. Netting neutrophils in autoimmune small-vessel vasculitis
Small-vessel vasculitis (SVV) is a chronic autoinflammatory condition linked to antineutrophil cytoplasm autoantibodies (ANCAs). Here we show that chromatin fibers, so-called neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), are released by ANCA-stimulated neutrophils and contain the targeted autoantigens proteinase-3 (PR3) and myeloperoxidase (MPO). Deposition of NETs in inflamed kidneys and circulating MPO-DNA complexes suggest that NET formation triggers vasculitis and promotes the autoimmune response against neutrophil components in individuals with SVV.

## 31. Genomewide Analysis of PRC1 and PRC2 Occupancy Identifies Two Classes of Bivalent Domains
In embryonic stem (ES) cells, bivalent chromatin domains with overlapping repressive (H3 lysine 27 tri-methylation) and activating (H3 lysine 4 tri-methylation) histone modifications mark the promoters of more than 2,000 genes. To gain insight into the structure and function of bivalent domains, we mapped key histone modifications and subunits of Polycomb-repressive complexes 1 and 2 (PRC1 and PRC2) genomewide in human and mouse ES cells by chromatin immunoprecipitation, followed by ultra high-throughput sequencing. We find that bivalent domains can be segregated into two classes -- the first occupied by both PRC2 and PRC1 (PRC1-positive) and the second specifically bound by PRC2 (PRC2-only). PRC1-positive bivalent domains appear functionally distinct as they more efficiently retain lysine 27 tri-methylation upon differentiation, show stringent conservation of chromatin state, and associate with an overwhelming number of developmental regulator gene promoters. We also used computational genomics to search for sequence determinants of Polycomb binding. This analysis revealed that the genomewide locations of PRC2 and PRC1 can be largely predicted from the locations, sizes, and underlying motif contents of CpG islands. We propose that large CpG islands depleted of activating motifs confer epigenetic memory by recruiting the full repertoire of Polycomb complexes in pluripotent cells.

## 32. Integrin αvβ8-Mediated TGF-β Activation by Effector Regulatory T Cells Is Essential for Suppression of T-Cell-Mediated Inflammation
Regulatory T (Treg) cells play a pivotal role in suppressing self-harmful T cell responses, but how Treg cells mediate suppression to maintain immune homeostasis and limit responses during inflammation is unclear. Here we show that effector Treg cells express high amounts of the integrin αvβ8, which enables them to activate latent transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). Treg-cell-specific deletion of integrin αvβ8 did not result in a spontaneous inflammatory phenotype, suggesting that this pathway is not important in Treg-cell-mediated maintenance of immune homeostasis. However, Treg cells lacking expression of integrin αvβ8 were unable to suppress pathogenic T cell responses during active inflammation. Thus, our results identify a mechanism by which Treg cells suppress exuberant immune responses, highlighting a key role for effector Treg-cell-mediated activation of latent TGF-β in suppression of self-harmful T cell responses during active inflammation.

## 33. Increased Microerythrocyte Count in Homozygous α+-Thalassaemia Contributes to Protection against Severe Malarial Anaemia
BACKGROUND The heritable haemoglobinopathy alpha(+)-thalassaemia is caused by the reduced synthesis of alpha-globin chains that form part of normal adult haemoglobin (Hb). Individuals homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia have microcytosis and an increased erythrocyte count. Alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity confers considerable protection against severe malaria, including severe malarial anaemia (SMA) (Hb concentration < 50 g/l), but does not influence parasite count. We tested the hypothesis that the erythrocyte indices associated with alpha(+)-thalassaemia homozygosity provide a haematological benefit during acute malaria. METHODS AND FINDINGS Data from children living on the north coast of Papua New Guinea who had participated in a case-control study of the protection afforded by alpha(+)-thalassaemia against severe malaria were reanalysed to assess the genotype-specific reduction in erythrocyte count and Hb levels associated with acute malarial disease. We observed a reduction in median erythrocyte count of approximately 1.5 x 10(12)/l in all children with acute falciparum malaria relative to values in community children (p < 0.001). We developed a simple mathematical model of the linear relationship between Hb concentration and erythrocyte count. This model predicted that children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia lose less Hb than children of normal genotype for a reduction in erythrocyte count of >1.1 x 10(12)/l as a result of the reduced mean cell Hb in homozygous alpha(+)-thalassaemia. In addition, children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia require a 10% greater reduction in erythrocyte count than children of normal genotype (p = 0.02) for Hb concentration to fall to 50 g/l, the cutoff for SMA. We estimated that the haematological profile in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia reduces the risk of SMA during acute malaria compared to children of normal genotype (relative risk 0.52; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.24-1.12, p = 0.09). CONCLUSIONS The increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis in children homozygous for alpha(+)-thalassaemia may contribute substantially to their protection against SMA. A lower concentration of Hb per erythrocyte and a larger population of erythrocytes may be a biologically advantageous strategy against the significant reduction in erythrocyte count that occurs during acute infection with the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. This haematological profile may reduce the risk of anaemia by other Plasmodium species, as well as other causes of anaemia. Other host polymorphisms that induce an increased erythrocyte count and microcytosis may confer a similar advantage.

## 34. Body-mass index and cause-specific mortality in 900 000 adults: collaborative analyses of 57 prospective studies.
BACKGROUND The main associations of body-mass index (BMI) with overall and cause-specific mortality can best be assessed by long-term prospective follow-up of large numbers of people. The Prospective Studies Collaboration aimed to investigate these associations by sharing data from many studies. METHODS Collaborative analyses were undertaken of baseline BMI versus mortality in 57 prospective studies with 894 576 participants, mostly in western Europe and North America (61% [n=541 452] male, mean recruitment age 46 [SD 11] years, median recruitment year 1979 [IQR 1975-85], mean BMI 25 [SD 4] kg/m(2)). The analyses were adjusted for age, sex, smoking status, and study. To limit reverse causality, the first 5 years of follow-up were excluded, leaving 66 552 deaths of known cause during a mean of 8 (SD 6) further years of follow-up (mean age at death 67 [SD 10] years): 30 416 vascular; 2070 diabetic, renal or hepatic; 22 592 neoplastic; 3770 respiratory; 7704 other. FINDINGS In both sexes, mortality was lowest at about 22.5-25 kg/m(2). Above this range, positive associations were recorded for several specific causes and inverse associations for none, the absolute excess risks for higher BMI and smoking were roughly additive, and each 5 kg/m(2) higher BMI was on average associated with about 30% higher overall mortality (hazard ratio per 5 kg/m(2) [HR] 1.29 [95% CI 1.27-1.32]): 40% for vascular mortality (HR 1.41 [1.37-1.45]); 60-120% for diabetic, renal, and hepatic mortality (HRs 2.16 [1.89-2.46], 1.59 [1.27-1.99], and 1.82 [1.59-2.09], respectively); 10% for neoplastic mortality (HR 1.10 [1.06-1.15]); and 20% for respiratory and for all other mortality (HRs 1.20 [1.07-1.34] and 1.20 [1.16-1.25], respectively). Below the range 22.5-25 kg/m(2), BMI was associated inversely with overall mortality, mainly because of strong inverse associations with respiratory disease and lung cancer. These inverse associations were much stronger for smokers than for non-smokers, despite cigarette consumption per smoker varying little with BMI. INTERPRETATION Although other anthropometric measures (eg, waist circumference, waist-to-hip ratio) could well add extra information to BMI, and BMI to them, BMI is in itself a strong predictor of overall mortality both above and below the apparent optimum of about 22.5-25 kg/m(2). The progressive excess mortality above this range is due mainly to vascular disease and is probably largely causal. At 30-35 kg/m(2), median survival is reduced by 2-4 years; at 40-45 kg/m(2), it is reduced by 8-10 years (which is comparable with the effects of smoking). The definite excess mortality below 22.5 kg/m(2) is due mainly to smoking-related diseases, and is not fully explained.

## 35. GAPDH Mediates Nitrosylation of Nuclear Proteins
S-nitrosylation of proteins by nitric oxide is a major mode of signalling in cells. S-nitrosylation can mediate the regulation of a range of proteins, including prominent nuclear proteins, such as HDAC2 (ref. 2) and PARP1 (ref. 3). The high reactivity of the nitric oxide group with protein thiols, but the selective nature of nitrosylation within the cell, implies the existence of targeting mechanisms. Specificity of nitric oxide signalling is often achieved by the binding of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) to target proteins, either directly or through scaffolding proteins such as PSD-95 (ref. 5) and CAPON. As the three principal isoforms of NOS--neuronal NOS (nNOS), endothelial NOS (eNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS)--are primarily non-nuclear, the mechanisms by which nuclear proteins are selectively nitrosylated have been elusive. Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is physiologically nitrosylated at its Cys 150 residue. Nitrosylated GAPDH (SNO-GAPDH) binds to Siah1, which possesses a nuclear localization signal, and is transported to the nucleus. Here, we show that SNO-GAPDH physiologically transnitrosylates nuclear proteins, including the deacetylating enzyme sirtuin-1 (SIRT1), histone deacetylase-2 (HDAC2) and DNA-activated protein kinase (DNA-PK). Our findings reveal a novel mechanism for targeted nitrosylation of nuclear proteins and suggest that protein-protein transfer of nitric oxide groups may be a general mechanism in cellular signal transduction.

## 36. Inhibition of Hedgehog signaling enhances delivery of chemotherapy in a mouse model of pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is among the most lethal human cancers in part because it is insensitive to many chemotherapeutic drugs. Studying a mouse model of PDA that is refractory to the clinically used drug gemcitabine, we found that the tumors in this model were poorly perfused and poorly vascularized, properties that are shared with human PDA. We tested whether the delivery and efficacy of gemcitabine in the mice could be improved by coadministration of IPI-926, a drug that depletes tumor-associated stromal tissue by inhibition of the Hedgehog cellular signaling pathway. The combination therapy produced a transient increase in intratumoral vascular density and intratumoral concentration of gemcitabine, leading to transient stabilization of disease. Thus, inefficient drug delivery may be an important contributor to chemoresistance in pancreatic cancer.

## 37. LDL-cholesterol concentrations: a genome-wide association study
BACKGROUND LDL cholesterol has a causal role in the development of cardiovascular disease. Improved understanding of the biological mechanisms that underlie the metabolism and regulation of LDL cholesterol might help to identify novel therapeutic targets. We therefore did a genome-wide association study of LDL-cholesterol concentrations. METHODS We used genome-wide association data from up to 11,685 participants with measures of circulating LDL-cholesterol concentrations across five studies, including data for 293 461 autosomal single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with a minor allele frequency of 5% or more that passed our quality control criteria. We also used data from a second genome-wide array in up to 4337 participants from three of these five studies, with data for 290,140 SNPs. We did replication studies in two independent populations consisting of up to 4979 participants. Statistical approaches, including meta-analysis and linkage disequilibrium plots, were used to refine association signals; we analysed pooled data from all seven populations to determine the effect of each SNP on variations in circulating LDL-cholesterol concentrations. FINDINGS In our initial scan, we found two SNPs (rs599839 [p=1.7x10(-15)] and rs4970834 [p=3.0x10(-11)]) that showed genome-wide statistical association with LDL cholesterol at chromosomal locus 1p13.3. The second genome screen found a third statistically associated SNP at the same locus (rs646776 [p=4.3x10(-9)]). Meta-analysis of data from all studies showed an association of SNPs rs599839 (combined p=1.2x10(-33)) and rs646776 (p=4.8x10(-20)) with LDL-cholesterol concentrations. SNPs rs599839 and rs646776 both explained around 1% of the variation in circulating LDL-cholesterol concentrations and were associated with about 15% of an SD change in LDL cholesterol per allele, assuming an SD of 1 mmol/L.   INTERPRETATION We found evidence for a novel locus for LDL cholesterol on chromosome 1p13.3. These results potentially provide insight into the biological mechanisms that underlie the regulation of LDL cholesterol and might help in the discovery of novel therapeutic targets for cardiovascular disease.

## 38. Epidemiological expansion, structural studies, and clinical challenges of new β-lactamases from gram-negative bacteria.
β-Lactamase evolution presents to the infectious disease community a major challenge in the treatment of infections caused by multidrug-resistant gram-negative bacteria. Because over 1,000 of these naturally occurring β-lactamases exist, attempts to correlate structure and function have become daunting. Although new enzymes in the extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL) families are frequently identified, the older CTX-M-14 and CTX-M-15 enzymes have become the most prevalent ESBLs in global surveillance. Carbapenemases with either serine-based or zinc-facilitated hydrolysis mechanisms are posing some of the most critical problems. Most geographical regions now report KPC serine carbapenemases and the metallo-β-lactamases VIM, IMP, and NDM-1, even though NDM-1 was only recently identified. The rapid emergence of these newer enzymes, with multiple β-lactamases appearing in a single organism, makes the design of new β-lactamase inactivators or β-lactamase-stable β-lactams all the more difficult. Combination therapy will likely be required to counteract the continuing evolution of these insidious enzymes in multidrug-resistant pathogens.

## 39. Requirement for the ERI/DICER complex in endogenous RNA interference and sperm development in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Small regulatory RNAs are key regulators of gene expression. One class of small regulatory RNAs, termed the endogenous small interfering RNAs (endo siRNAs), is thought to negatively regulate cellular transcripts via an RNA interference (RNAi)-like mechanism termed endogenous RNAi (endo RNAi). A complex of proteins composed of ERI-1/3/5, RRF-3, and DICER (the ERI/DICER complex) mediates endo RNAi processes in Caenorhabditis elegans. We conducted a genetic screen to identify additional components of the endo RNAi machinery. Our screen recovered alleles of eri-9, which encodes a novel DICER-interacting protein, and a missense mutation within the helicase domain of DICER [DCR-1(G492R)]. ERI-9(-) and DCR-1(G492) animals exhibit defects in endo siRNA expression and a concomitant failure to regulate mRNAs that exhibit sequence homology to these endo siRNAs, indicating that ERI-9 and the DCR-1 helicase domain function in the C. elegans endo RNAi pathway. We define a subset of Eri mutant animals (including eri-1, rrf-3, eri-3, and dcr-1, but not eri-9 or ergo-1) that exhibit temperature-sensitive, sperm-specific sterility and defects in X chromosome segregation. Among these mutants we find multiple aberrations in sperm development beginning with cytokinesis and extending through terminal differentiation. These results identify novel components of the endo RNAi machinery, demonstrate differential requirements for the Eri factors in the sperm-producing germline, and begin to delineate the functional requirement for the ERI/DICER complex in sperm development.

## 40. Clinical and laboratory features of adult T-cell leukaemia lymphoma in Barbados.
We describe the clinical and pathological features of 23 Afro-Caribbean patients with adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma admitted to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Barbados over a 5 year period. There were 9 males and 14 females, with a median age of 38 years (range 14-84). Twelve had acute leukaemia, 10 lymphoma (including 4 with solitary extra nodal lesions) and 1 smouldering subtype. Two patients had a past history of tropical spastic paraparesis/HTLV I associated myelopathy (TSP/HAM). The prognosis was poor, with only 3 complete responses to chemotherapy (CHOP) lasting from 9 to 36 months. We conclude that ATLL in Barbados is similar to the disease in the other Caribbean islands and Japan, except that in Barbados the age of onset is over a decade younger than in Japan.

## 41. Intrauterine factors and risk of breast cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis of current evidence.
BACKGROUND Emerging evidence suggests an association between female prenatal experience and her subsequent risk of developing breast cancer. Potential underlying mechanisms include variation in amounts of maternal endogenous sex hormones and growth hormones, germ-cell mutations, formation of cancer stem-cells, and other genetic or epigenetic events. We reviewed and summarised quantitatively the available data on intrauterine exposures and risk of breast cancer. METHODS We systematically searched for studies that assessed association between perinatal factors and risk of breast cancer. We reviewed separately each of the perinatal factors, including birthweight, birth length, parental age at delivery, gestational age, intrauterine exposure to diethylstilbestrol, twin membership, maternal pre-eclampsia or eclampsia, and other factors. FINDINGS We identified 57 studies published between Oct 1, 1980, and June 21, 2007. Increased risk of breast cancer was noted with increased birthweight (relative risk [RR] 1.15 [95% CI 1.09-1.21]), birth length (1.28 [1.11-1.48]), higher maternal age (1.13 [1.02-1.25]), and paternal age (1.12 [1.05-1.19]). Decreased risk of breast cancer was noted for maternal pre-eclampsia and eclampsia (0.48 [0.30-0.78]) and twin membership (0.93 [0.87-1.00]). No association was noted between risk of breast cancer and gestational age at birth (0.95 [0.71-1.26]) or maternal diethylstilbestrol treatment (1.40 [0.86-2.28]). INTERPRETATION The intrauterine environment contributes to the predisposition of women to breast cancer in adulthood. The in-utero mechanisms responsible for such predisposition need to be elucidated.

## 42. Topographic mapping of VMH → arcuate nucleus microcircuits and their reorganization by fasting
In the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC), pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons inhibit feeding and neuropeptide-Y (NPY) neurons stimulate feeding. We tested whether neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMH), a known satiety center, activate anorexigenic neuronal pathways in the ARC by projecting either excitatory synaptic inputs to POMC neurons and/or inhibitory inputs to NPY neurons. Using laser scanning photostimulation in brain slices from transgenic mice, we found that POMC and NPY neurons, which are interspersed in the ARC, are nevertheless regulated by anatomically distinct synaptic inputs. POMC neurons received strong excitatory input from the medial VMH (mVMH), whereas NPY neurons did not and, instead, received weak inhibitory input only from within the ARC. The strength of the excitatory input from the mVMH to POMC neurons was diminished by fasting. These data identify a new molecularly defined circuit that is dynamically regulated by nutritional state in a manner consistent with the known role of the VMH as a satiety center.

## 43. Olmesartan-based therapies: an effective way to improve blood pressure control and cardiovascular protection.
The main purpose in hypertension treatment is the reduction of cardiovascular disease burden. Among different first-line antihypertensive drug classes, angiotensin-receptor blockers are characterized by their both good effectiveness and tolerability. Furthermore, the interruption of the renin-angiotensin cascade is related with several benefits in target organ protection and cardiovascular prevention. Among different angiotensin-receptor blockers, olmesartan has been examined in several trial of organ protection, showing improvements in several disease markers, such as microinflammation, regression of both plaque volume and vascular hypertrophy, as well as microalbuminuria prevention. Olmesartan has been also widely examined in combination of either hydrochlorothiazide or amlodipine, as well as with both drugs in a single-pill triple combination, showing improvements in antihypertensive efficacy without significant effects on tolerability. This treatment strategy based on a drug with such characteristics and the availability of different types of combinations with other first-line drug classes may represent an effective way for achieving blood pressure control in a majority of hypertensive patients and this could also be related with a better cardiovascular disease prevention.

## 44. A nuclear Argonaute promotes multi-generational epigenetic inheritance and germline immortality
Epigenetic information is frequently erased near the start of each new generation. In some cases, however, epigenetic information can be transmitted from parent to progeny (multigenerational epigenetic inheritance). A particularly notable example of this type of epigenetic inheritance is double-stranded RNA-mediated gene silencing in Caenorhabditis elegans. This RNA-mediated interference (RNAi) can be inherited for more than five generations. To understand this process, here we conduct a genetic screen for nematodes defective in transmitting RNAi silencing signals to future generations. This screen identified the heritable RNAi defective 1 (hrde-1) gene. hrde-1 encodes an Argonaute protein that associates with small interfering RNAs in the germ cells of progeny of animals exposed to double-stranded RNA. In the nuclei of these germ cells, HRDE-1 engages the nuclear RNAi defective pathway to direct the trimethylation of histone H3 at Lys 9 (H3K9me3) at RNAi-targeted genomic loci and promote RNAi inheritance. Under normal growth conditions, HRDE-1 associates with endogenously expressed short interfering RNAs, which direct nuclear gene silencing in germ cells. In hrde-1- or nuclear RNAi-deficient animals, germline silencing is lost over generational time. Concurrently, these animals exhibit steadily worsening defects in gamete formation and function that ultimately lead to sterility. These results establish that the Argonaute protein HRDE-1 directs gene-silencing events in germ-cell nuclei that drive multigenerational RNAi inheritance and promote immortality of the germ-cell lineage. We propose that C. elegans use the RNAi inheritance machinery to transmit epigenetic information, accrued by past generations, into future generations to regulate important biological processes.

## 45. Hyaluronan impairs vascular function and drug delivery in a mouse model of pancreatic cancer
OBJECTIVE Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is characterised by stromal desmoplasia and vascular dysfunction, which critically impair drug delivery. This study examines the role of an abundant extracellular matrix component, the megadalton glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (HA), as a novel therapeutic target in PDA. METHODS Using a genetically engineered mouse model of PDA, the authors enzymatically depleted HA by a clinically formulated PEGylated human recombinant PH20 hyaluronidase (PEGPH20) and examined tumour perfusion, vascular permeability and drug delivery. The preclinical utility of PEGPH20 in combination with gemcitabine was assessed by short-term and survival studies. RESULTS PEGPH20 rapidly and sustainably depleted HA, inducing the re-expansion of PDA blood vessels and increasing the intratumoral delivery of two chemotherapeutic agents, doxorubicin and gemcitabine. Moreover, PEGPH20 triggered fenestrations and interendothelial junctional gaps in PDA tumour endothelia and promoted a tumour-specific increase in macromolecular permeability. Finally, combination therapy with PEGPH20 and gemcitabine led to inhibition of PDA tumour growth and prolonged survival over gemcitabine monotherapy, suggesting immediate clinical utility. CONCLUSIONS The authors demonstrate that HA impedes the intratumoral vasculature in PDA and propose that its enzymatic depletion be explored as a means to improve drug delivery and response in patients with pancreatic cancer.

## 46. Mass screening programmes and trends in cervical cancer in Finland and the Netherlands.
With respect to cervical cancer management, Finland and the Netherlands are comparable in relevant characteristics, e.g., fertility rate, age-of-mother at first birth and a national screening programme for several years. The aim of this study is to compare trends in incidence of and mortality from cervical cancer in Finland and the Netherlands in relation to the introduction and intensity of the screening programmes. Therefore, incidence and mortality rates were calculated using the Cancer Registries of Finland and the Netherlands. Data on screening intensity were obtained from the Finnish Cancer Registry and the Dutch evaluation centre at ErasmusMC-Rotterdam. Women aged 30-60 have been screened every 5 years, in Finland since 1992 and in the Netherlands since 1996. Screening protocols for smear taking and referral to the gynaecologist are comparable. Incidence and mortality rates have declined more in Finland. In 2003, age-adjusted incidence and mortality in Finland were 4.0 and 0.9 and in the Netherlands 4.9 and 1.4 per 100,000 woman-years, respectively. Excess smear use in the Netherlands was estimated to be 24 per 1,000 women during a 5-year interval compared to 121 in Finland. The decline in mortality in Finland seems to be almost completely related to the screening programme whereas in the Netherlands it was initially considered to be a natural decline. Differences in risk factors might also play a role: the Netherlands has higher population density and higher percentages of immigrants and (female) smokers. The greater excess smear use in Finland might also have affected incidence.

## 47. Diversification in the HIV-1 Envelope Hyper-variable Domains V2, V4, and V5 and Higher Probability of Transmitted/Founder Envelope Glycosylation Favor the Development of Heterologous Neutralization Breadth
A recent study of plasma neutralization breadth in HIV-1 infected individuals at nine International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) sites reported that viral load, HLA-A*03 genotype, and subtype C infection were strongly associated with the development of neutralization breadth. Here, we refine the findings of that study by analyzing the impact of the transmitted/founder (T/F) envelope (Env), early Env diversification, and autologous neutralization on the development of plasma neutralization breadth in 21 participants identified during recent infection at two of those sites: Kigali, Rwanda (n = 9) and Lusaka, Zambia (n = 12). Single-genome analysis of full-length T/F Env sequences revealed that all 21 individuals were infected with a highly homogeneous population of viral variants, which were categorized as subtype C (n = 12), A1 (n = 7), or recombinant AC (n = 2). An extensive amino acid sequence-based analysis of variable loop lengths and glycosylation patterns in the T/F Envs revealed that a lower ratio of NXS to NXT-encoded glycan motifs correlated with neutralization breadth. Further analysis comparing amino acid sequence changes, insertions/deletions, and glycan motif alterations between the T/F Env and autologous early Env variants revealed that extensive diversification focused in the V2, V4, and V5 regions of gp120, accompanied by contemporaneous viral escape, significantly favored the development of breadth. These results suggest that more efficient glycosylation of subtype A and C T/F Envs through fewer NXS-encoded glycan sites is more likely to elicit antibodies that can transition from autologous to heterologous neutralizing activity following exposure to gp120 diversification. This initiates an Env-antibody co-evolution cycle that increases neutralization breadth, and is further augmented over time by additional viral and host factors. These findings suggest that understanding how variation in the efficiency of site-specific glycosylation influences neutralizing antibody elicitation and targeting could advance the design of immunogens aimed at inducing antibodies that can transition from autologous to heterologous neutralizing activity.

## 48. Helicobacter pylori AlpA and AlpB bind host laminin and influence gastric inflammation in gerbils.
Helicobacter pylori persistently colonizes humans, causing gastritis, ulcers, and gastric cancer. Adherence to the gastric epithelium has been shown to enhance inflammation, yet only a few H. pylori adhesins have been paired with targets in host tissue. The alpAB locus has been reported to encode adhesins involved in adherence to human gastric tissue. We report that abrogation of H. pylori AlpA and AlpB reduces binding of H. pylori to laminin while expression of plasmid-borne alpA or alpB confers laminin-binding ability to Escherichia coli. An H. pylori strain lacking only AlpB is also deficient in laminin binding. Thus, we conclude that both AlpA and AlpB contribute to H. pylori laminin binding. Contrary to expectations, the H. pylori SS1 mutant deficient in AlpA and AlpB causes more severe inflammation than the isogenic wild-type strain in gerbils. Identification of laminin as the target of AlpA and AlpB will facilitate future investigations of host-pathogen interactions occurring during H. pylori infection.

## 49. Gout-associated uric acid crystals activate the NALP3 inflammasome
Development of the acute and chronic inflammatory responses known as gout and pseudogout are associated with the deposition of monosodium urate (MSU) or calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD) crystals, respectively, in joints and periarticular tissues. Although MSU crystals were first identified as the aetiological agent of gout in the eighteenth century and more recently as a ‘danger signal’ released from dying cells, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying MSU- or CPPD-induced inflammation. Here we show that MSU and CPPD engage the caspase-1-activating NALP3 (also called cryopyrin) inflammasome, resulting in the production of active interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18. Macrophages from mice deficient in various components of the inflammasome such as caspase-1, ASC and NALP3 are defective in crystal-induced IL-1β activation. Moreover, an impaired neutrophil influx is found in an in vivo model of crystal-induced peritonitis in inflammasome-deficient mice or mice deficient in the IL-1β receptor (IL-1R). These findings provide insight into the molecular processes underlying the inflammatory conditions of gout and pseudogout, and further support a pivotal role of the inflammasome in several autoinflammatory diseases.

## 50. Role of birthweight in the etiology of breast cancer.
Breast cancer may originate in utero. We reviewed the available evidence on the association between birthweight and the risk of breast cancer. To date, 26 research papers addressing this issue have been published. The majority of studies identified a positive link between birthweight and premenopausal, but not postmenopausal, breast cancer. The relative risk estimate for breast cancer comparing women with high birthweight to women with low birthweight combining all studies including both pre- and postmenopausal breast cancer was 1.23 (95% confidence interval 1.13-1.34). The mechanisms underlying this association likely include elevated levels of growth factors that may increase the number of susceptible stem cells in the mammary gland or initiate tumors through DNA mutations. Loss of imprinting (LOI) of growth hormone genes relevant for intrauterine growth, such as insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), leads to abnormally high levels of these hormones evidenced by high birthweight. LOI of IGF2 has also been found in mammary tumor tissue. The role of environmental factors that stimulate such epigenetic regulation of gene expression remains to be elucidated.

## 51. Rate of cervical cancer, severe intraepithelial neoplasia, and adenocarcinoma in situ in primary HPV DNA screening with cytology triage: randomised study within organised screening programme.
OBJECTIVE To assess the performance and impact of primary human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA screening with cytology triage compared with conventional cytology on cervical cancer and severe pre-cancerous lesions. DESIGN Randomised trial. SETTING Population based screening programme for cervical cancer in southern Finland in 2003-5. PARTICIPANTS 58 076 women, aged 30-60, invited to the routine population based screening programme for cervical cancer. INTERVENTIONS Primary HPV DNA test (hybrid capture II) with cytology triage if the result was positive or conventional cytological screening (reference). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES Rate of cervical cancer, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade III, and adenocarcinoma in situ (as a composite outcome referred to as CIN III+) during 2003-7 through record linkage between files from the screening registry and the national cancer registry. RESULTS In the HPV and conventional arms there were 95 600 and 95 700 woman years of follow-up and 76 and 53 cases of CIN III+, respectively (of which six and eight were cervical cancers). The relative rate of CIN III+ in the HPV arm versus the conventional arm was 1.44 (95% confidence interval 1.01 to 2.05) among all women invited for screening and 1.77 (1.16 to 2.74) among those who attended. Among women with a normal or negative test result, the relative rate of subsequent CIN III+ was 0.28 (0.04 to 1.17). The rate of cervical cancer between arms was 0.75 (0.25 to 2.16) among women invited for screening and 1.98 (0.52 to 9.38) among those who attended. CONCLUSIONS When incorporated into a well established organised screening programme, primary HPV screening with cytology triage was more sensitive than conventional cytology in detecting CIN III+ lesions. The number of cases of cervical cancer was small, but considering the high probability of progression of CIN III the findings are of importance regarding cancer prevention. TRIAL REGISTRATION Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN23885553.

## 52. Open Access Increases Citation Rate
PLoS Biology publishes today a research article by Gunther Eysenbach that is not about biology. It is about citations. It provides robust evidence that open-access articles (OA articles) are more immediately recognized and cited than non-OA articles. As such, it adds objective support to the belief we have always held that open-access publication speeds up scientific dialog between researchers and, consequently, should be extended to the whole scientific literature as quickly as possible. It is therefore fitting that we publish such a paper. We have long argued that papers freely available in a journal will be more often read and cited than those behind a subscription barrier. However, solid evidence to support or refute such a claim has been surprisingly hard to find. Since most open-access journals are new, comparisons of the effects of open access with established subscription-based journals are easily confounded by age and reputation. In the current study, Eysenbach compared citations compiled by Thomson Scientific (formerly Thomson ISI) to individual articles published between June 2004 and December 2004 in the same journal—namely, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), which announced its open-access option for authors on June 8 of that year, with an associated publication charge of US$1,000. Non-OA articles in PNAS are subject to a six-month “toll-access” delay before the article becomes publicly available. The results of this natural experiment are clear: in the 4 to 16 months following publication, OA articles gained a significant citation advantage over non-OA articles during the same period. They are twice as likely to be cited 4 to 10 months after publication and almost three times as likely between 10 and 16 months. Given that PNAS delays open access for only six months, the disparity between OA and non-OA articles in journals where the delay is longer or where articles remain “toll-access” is likely to be even greater. Eysenbach also looked at the impact of self-archiving non-OA articles. One route to open access, it is argued, is for authors to archive their published articles on their own Web sites or in institutional repositories, although this does not include an explicit business model to cover the cost of peer-review and publishing. The analysis revealed that self-archived articles are also cited less often than OA articles from the same journal. Yes, you're right; we do have a strong and vested interest in publishing results that so obviously endorse our existence. Moreover, the author of the article is also an editor of an open-access journal. But sometimes a potential conflict of interest can actually help to ensure rigor. In this case, we have an acute interest in ensuring that the article meets the same, if not higher, standards as any other research article we publish. Not only must the conclusions provide a significant advance for the field, but the study must be technically sound, with appropriate evidence to support those conclusions. As with all our research articles, we consulted throughout the evaluation process with an academic editor with appropriate expertise—in this case, Carol Tenopir, professor of information sciences at the University of Tennessee (Knoxville, Tennessee, United States). The article was reviewed by two experts in bibliometric analyses and information science, and an experienced research biologist with expertise in statistics. They all enthusiastically supported publication, although one understandably questioned the suitability of PLoS Biology as the publication venue. We have no intention of making PLoS Biology a regular home for bibliometric studies (even when about open access). What makes this study worth publishing in PLoS Biology is not only the relative strength of evidence supporting the claim but also the extent to which many (especially other publishers) have anticipated such an analysis. As far as we are aware, no other study has compared OA and non-OA articles from the same journal and controlled for so many potentially confounding factors. Eysenbach's multivariate analysis took into account the number of days since publication, number of authors, article type, country of the corresponding author, funding type, subject area, submission track ( PNAS has three different ways that authors can submit a paper), and the previous citation record of the first and last authors. He even administered a supplementary questionnaire to assess whether authors choosing the OA option in PNAS chose to do so for only their most important research (they didn't). As Ian Rowlands from the Centre for Publishing at University College London—and one of the reviewers who agreed to be identified in this article—said at the start of his review:          “Many (most) of the papers and presentations I have read/seen on this topic have completely failed to address the kinds of confounding issues that are so convincingly tackled here. For that reason alone, this paper deserves to be published and alerted to the widest possible audience. ”          In addition to providing evidence for the immediate advantage of open access, Eysenbach's analysis also highlights several potential challenges to its long-term future. Although a limited dataset, the citation history of the first and last authors differed between those who chose the open-access option and those who did not. In the group that chose open access, last authors tended to have a “stronger” previous citation record, whereas this situation was reversed among the group that declined the open-access option—here, it was the first authors who tended to be stronger. This may reflect varying attitudes of authors at different stages of their career, a stronger influence from the leader of a particular group, or an age- or career-related difference in the ability to pay the publication charge (e.g., [ 1]). Indeed, access to appropriate funds may also be a reason why a lower proportion of authors from European countries tended to choose the open-access option. In many of these countries, funds for page charges—and, by extension, open-access publication fees—are often not included within research grants. PNAS was one of the first journals to offer an open-access option to its authors. However, such hybrid journals are increasing: Blackwell, Springer, and Oxford University Press now provide this option as well. This means that similar experiments can be replicated. Moreover, although the evidence from the current analysis argues most strongly for a time advantage in citation for OA articles, a study over longer periods will reveal whether this translates into a sustained increase in the number of citations. In the meantime, open-access advocates should be emboldened by tangible evidence for what has seemed obvious all along.

## 53. Quantitative assessment of T-cell repertoire recovery after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
Delayed T cell recovery and restricted T cell receptor (TCR) diversity after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) are associated with increased risks of infection and cancer relapse. Technical challenges have limited faithful measurement of TCR diversity after allo-HSCT. Here we combined 5' rapid amplification of complementary DNA ends PCR with deep sequencing to quantify TCR diversity in 28 recipients of allo-HSCT using a single oligonucleotide pair. Analysis of duplicate blood samples confirmed that we accurately determined the frequency of individual TCRs. After 6 months, cord blood-graft recipients approximated the TCR diversity of healthy individuals, whereas recipients of T cell-depleted peripheral-blood stem cell grafts had 28-fold and 14-fold lower CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell diversities, respectively. After 12 months, these deficiencies had improved for the CD4(+) but not the CD8(+) T cell compartment. Overall, this method provides unprecedented views of T cell repertoire recovery after allo-HSCT and may identify patients at high risk of infection or relapse.

## 54. Protein Lysine Acetylated/Deacetylated Enzymes and the Metabolism-Related Diseases
Lysine acetylation is a reversible posttranslational modifcation, an epigenetic phenomenon, referred to as transfer of an acetyl group from acetyl CoA to lysine e- amino group of targeted protein, which is modulated by acetyltransferases (histone/ lysine (K) acetyltransferases, HATs/KATs) and deacetylases (histone/lysine (K) deacetylases, HDACs/KDACs). Lysine acetylation regulates various metabolic processes, such as fatty acid oxidation, Krebs cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, angiogenesis and so on. Thus disorders of lysine acetylation may be correlated with obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease, which are termed as the metabolic complication. With accumulating studies on proteomic acetylation, lysine acetylation also involves in cell immune status and degenerative diseases, for example, Alzheimer’s disease and Huntington’s disease. This review primarily summarizes the current studies of lysine acetylation in metabolism modulation and in metabolism-related diseases, such as cardiovascular disease and fat metabolism disorder.

## 55. Transcriptional regulation of neuronal genes and its effect on neural functions: expression and function of forkhead transcription factors in neurons.
Forkhead box transcription factor, class O (FOXO) is a mammalian homologue of DAF-16, which is known to regulate the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans and includes subfamilies of forkhead transcription factors such as AFX, FKHRL1, and FKHR. FKHR is phosphorylated on three sites (Thr-24, Ser-256, and Ser-319) in a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt-dependent manner, thereby inhibiting death signals. We here documented dephosphorylation of FKHR following transient forebrain ischemia with its concomitant translocation into the nucleus in neurons in gerbil and mouse brains. The activation of FKHR preceded delayed neuronal death in the vulnerable hippocampal regions following ischemic brain injury. The FKHR activation was accompanied by an increase in DNA binding activity for FKHR-responsive element on the Fas ligand promoter. We also defined FKHR-induced downstream targets such as Fas ligand and Bim in brain ischemia. Therefore, we propose a new strategy to rescue neurons from delayed neuronal death by promoting the survival signaling. Sodium orthovanadate, a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, up-regulated Akt activity in the brain and in turn rescue neurons from delayed neuronal death by inhibiting FKHR-dependent or -independent death signals in neurons.

## 56. Molecular Characterization of Oxysterol Binding to the Epstein-Barr Virus-induced Gene 2 (GPR183)*
Oxysterols are oxygenated cholesterol derivates that are emerging as a physiologically important group of molecules. Although they regulate a range of cellular processes, only few oxysterol-binding effector proteins have been identified, and the knowledge of their binding mode is limited. Recently, the family of G protein-coupled seven transmembrane-spanning receptors (7TM receptors) was added to this group. Specifically, the Epstein-Barr virus-induced gene 2 (EBI2 or GPR183) was shown to be activated by several oxysterols, most potently by 7α,25-dihydroxycholesterol (7α,25-OHC). Nothing is known about the binding mode, however. Using mutational analysis, we identify here four key residues for 7α,25-OHC binding: Arg-87 in TM-II (position II:20/2.60), Tyr-112 and Tyr-116 (positions III:09/3.33 and III:13/3.37) in TM-III, and Tyr-260 in TM-VI (position VI:16/6.51). Substituting these residues with Ala and/or Phe results in a severe decrease in agonist binding and receptor activation. Docking simulations suggest that Tyr-116 interacts with the 3β-OH group in the agonist, Tyr-260 with the 7α-OH group, and Arg-87, either directly or indirectly, with the 25-OH group, although nearby residues likely also contribute. In addition, Tyr-112 is involved in 7α,25-OHC binding but via hydrophobic interactions. Finally, we show that II:20/2.60 constitutes an important residue for ligand binding in receptors carrying a positively charged residue at this position. This group is dominated by lipid- and nucleotide-activated receptors, here exemplified by the CysLTs, P2Y12, and P2Y14. In conclusion, we present the first molecular characterization of oxysterol binding to a 7TM receptor and identify position II:20/2.60 as a generally important residue for ligand binding in certain 7TM receptors.

## 57. The EMBL nucleotide sequence database.
The EMBL Nucleotide Sequence Database (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/embl. html ) constitutes Europe's primary nucleotide sequence resource. DNA and RNA sequences are directly submitted from researchers and genome sequencing groups and collected from the scientific literature and patent applications (Fig. 1). In collaboration with DDBJ and GenBank the database is produced, maintained and distributed at the European Bioinformatics Institute. Database releases are produced quarterly and are distributed on CD-ROM. EBI's network services allow access to the most up-to-date data collection via Internet and World Wide Web interface, providing database searching and sequence similarity facilities plus access to a large number of additional databases.

## 58. Factors influencing B lymphopoiesis after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation.
In 93 allograft recipients, the numbers of marrow B-cell precursors on days 80 and 365 correlated with the counts of circulating B cells, suggesting that the posttransplantation B-cell deficiency is at least in part due to insufficient B lymphopoiesis. Factors that could affect B lymphopoiesis were evaluated. The number of marrow B-cell precursors on days 30 and 80 was at least 4-fold lower in patients with grade 2 to 4 acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) compared with patients with grade 0 to 1 acute GVHD. The number of B-cell precursors on day 365 was 18-fold lower in patients with extensive chronic GVHD compared with patients with no or limited chronic GVHD. The number of B-cell precursors was not related to CD34 cell dose, type of transplant (marrow versus blood stem cells), donor age, or patient age. It was concluded that posttransplantation B-cell deficiency results in part from inhibition of B lymphopoiesis by GVHD and/or its treatment.

## 59. Mobilization of intracellular copper stores by the ctr2 vacuolar copper transporter.
Copper plays an essential role in processes including signaling to the transcription and protein trafficking machinery, oxidative phosphorylation, iron mobilization, neuropeptide maturation, and normal development. Whereas much is known about intracellular mobilization of ions such as calcium, little information is available on how eukaryotic cells mobilize intracellular copper stores. We describe a mechanism by which the Saccharomyces cerevisiae Ctr2 protein provides bioavailable copper via mobilization of intracellular copper stores. Whereas Ctr2 exhibits structural similarity to the Ctr1 plasma membrane copper importer, microscopic and biochemical fractionation studies localize Ctr2 to the vacuole membrane. We demonstrate that Ctr2 mobilizes vacuolar copper stores in a manner dependent on amino acid residues conserved between the Ctr1 and Ctr2 copper transport family and that ctr2 Delta mutants hyper-accumulate vacuolar copper. Furthermore, a Ctr2 mutant that is mislocalized to the plasma membrane stimulates extracellular copper uptake, supporting a direct role for Ctr2 in copper transport across membranes. These studies identify a novel mechanism for copper mobilization and suggest that organisms cope with copper deprivation via the use of intracellular vesicular stores.

## 60. Immune signaling by RIG-I-like receptors.
The RIG-I-like receptors (RLRs) RIG-I, MDA5, and LGP2 play a major role in pathogen sensing of RNA virus infection to initiate and modulate antiviral immunity. The RLRs detect viral RNA ligands or processed self RNA in the cytoplasm to trigger innate immunity and inflammation and to impart gene expression that serves to control infection. Importantly, RLRs cooperate in signaling crosstalk networks with Toll-like receptors and other factors to impart innate immunity and to modulate the adaptive immune response. RLR regulation occurs at a variety of levels ranging from autoregulation to ligand and cofactor interactions and posttranslational modifications. Abberant RLR signaling or dysregulation of RLR expression is now implicated in the development of autoimmune diseases. Understanding the processes of RLR signaling and response will provide insights to guide RLR-targeted therapeutics for antiviral and immune-modifying applications.

## 61. Unique response pathways are established by allosteric interactions among nuclear hormone receptors
Heterodimerization is a common paradigm among eukaryotic transcription factors. The 9-cis retinoic acid receptor (RXR) serves as a common heterodimerization partner for several nuclear receptors, including the thyroid hormone receptor (T3R) and retinoic acid receptor (RAR). This raises the question as to whether these complexes possess dual hormonal responsiveness. We devised a strategy to examine the transcriptional properties of each receptor individually or when tethered to a heterodimeric partner. We find that the intrinsic binding properties of RXR are masked in T3R-RXR and RAR-RXR heterodimers. In contrast, RXR is active as a non-DNA-binding cofactor with the NGFI-B/Nurr1 orphan receptors. Heterodimerization of RXR with constitutively active NGFI-B/Nurr1 creates a novel hormone-dependent complex. These findings suggest that allosteric interactions among heterodimers create complexes with unique properties. We suggest that allostery is a critical feature underlying the generation of diversity in hormone response networks.

## 62. Nonoverlapping functions of DNA polymerases mu, lambda, and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase during immunoglobulin V(D)J recombination in vivo.
DNA polymerases mu (pol mu), lambda (pol lambda), and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase (TdT) are enzymes of the pol X family that share homology in sequence and functional domain organization. We showed previously that pol mu participates in light chain but surprisingly not heavy chain gene rearrangement. We show here that immunoglobulin heavy chain junctions from pol lambda-deficient animals have shorter length with normal N-additions, thus indicating that pol lambda is recruited during heavy chain rearrangement at a step that precedes the action of TdT. In contrast to previous in vitro studies, analysis of animals with combined inactivation of these enzymes revealed no overlapping or compensatory activities for V(D)J recombination between pol mu, pol lambda, and TdT. This complex usage of polymerases with distinct catalytic specificities may correspond to the specific function that the third hypervariable region assumes for each immunoglobulin chain, with pol lambda maintaining a large heavy chain junctional heterogeneity and pol mu ensuring a restricted light chain junctional variability.

## 63. Antihypertensive classes, cognitive decline and incidence of dementia: a network meta-analysis.
OBJECTIVES Prevention of cognitive decline and dementia with blood pressure lowering treatments has shown inconsistent results. We compared the effects of different classes of antihypertensive drugs on the incidence of dementia, and on cognitive function. METHODS We conducted a systematic review and included 19 randomized trials (18 515 individuals) and 11 studies (831 674 individuals) analysing the effects of antihypertensive treatment on cognition and on the incidence of dementia, respectively, in hypertensive patients without prior cerebrovascular disorders. Network meta-analysis was used for the comparison of antihypertensive classes. RESULTS Antihypertensive treatment, regardless of the drug class, had benefits on overall cognition [effect size 0.05, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.02-0.07] and all cognitive functions except language. Antihypertensive treatment reduced the risk of all-cause dementia by 9%, with reference to the control group (hazard ratio 0.91, 95% CI 0.89-0.94), when randomized trials and observationnal studies were combined (n = 15). Result was not significant with randomized trials alone (n = 4). Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) had larger benefits than placebo on overall cognition (adjusted effect size 0.60 ± 0.18, P = 0.02). ARBs were more effective than β-blockers (0.67 ± 0.18, P = 0.01), diuretics (0.54 ± 0.19, P = 0.04) and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (0.47 ± 0.17, P = 0.04) in rank. The mean change in blood pressure did not differ significantly between the different antihypertensive drug classes. CONCLUSION Our results support the notion that antihypertensive treatment has beneficial effects on cognitive decline and prevention of dementia, and indicate that these effects may differ between drug classes with ARBs possibly being the most effective.

## 64. What influences government adoption of vaccines in developing countries? A policy process analysis.
This paper proposes a framework for examining the process by which government consideration and adoption of new vaccines takes place, with specific reference to developing country settings. The cases of early Hepatitis B vaccine adoption in Taiwan and Thailand are used to explore the relevance of explanatory factors identified in the literature as well as the need to go beyond a variable-centric focus by highlighting the role of policy context and process in determining the pace and extent of adoption. The cases suggest the feasibility and importance of modeling 'causal diversity'-the complex set of necessary and sufficient conditions leading to particular decisional outcomes-in a broad range of country contexts. A better understanding of the lenses through which government decision-makers filter information, and of the arenas in which critical decisions are shaped and taken, may assist both analysts (in predicting institutionalization of new vaccines) and advocates (in crafting targeted strategies to accelerate their diffusion).

## 65. Diagnostic accuracy of single baseline measurement of Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay for diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in emergency department: systematic review and meta-analysis
OBJECTIVE To obtain summary estimates of the accuracy of a single baseline measurement of the Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay (Roche Diagnostics) for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting to the emergency department. DESIGN Systematic review and meta-analysis of diagnostic test accuracy studies. DATA SOURCES Medline, Embase, and other relevant electronic databases were searched for papers published between January 2006 and December 2013. STUDY SELECTION Studies were included if they evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of a single baseline measurement of Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay for the diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction in patients presenting to the emergency department with suspected acute coronary syndrome. STUDY APPRAISAL AND DATA SYNTHESIS The first author screened all titles and abstracts identified through the searches and selected all potentially relevant papers. The screening of the full texts, the data extraction, and the methodological quality assessment, using the adapted QUADAS-2 tool, were conducted independently by two reviewers with disagreements being resolved through discussion or arbitration. If appropriate, meta-analysis was conducted using the hierarchical bivariate model. RESULTS Twenty three studies reported the performance of the evaluated assay at presentation. The results for 14 ng/L and 3-5 ng/L cut-off values were pooled separately. At 14 ng/L (20 papers), the summary sensitivity was 89.5% (95% confidence interval 86.3% to 92.1%) and the summary specificity was 77.1% (68.7% to 83.7%). At 3-5 ng/L (six papers), the summary sensitivity was 97.4% (94.9% to 98.7%) and the summary specificity was 42.4% (31.2% to 54.5%). This means that if 21 of 100 consecutive patients have the target condition (21%, the median prevalence across the studies), 2 (95% confidence interval 2 to 3) of 21 patients with acute myocardial infarction will be missed (false negatives) if 14 ng/L is used as a cut-off value and 18 (13 to 25) of 79 patients without acute myocardial infarction will test positive (false positives). If the 3-5 ng/L cut-off value is used, <1 (0 to 1) patient with acute myocardial infarction will be missed and 46 (36 to 54) patients without acute myocardial infarction will test positive. CONCLUSIONS The results indicate that a single baseline measurement of the Elecsys Troponin T high-sensitive assay could be used to rule out acute myocardial infarction if lower cut-off values such as 3 ng/L or 5 ng/L are used. However, this method should be part of a comprehensive triage strategy and may not be appropriate for patients who present less than three hours after symptom onset. Care must also be exercised because of the higher imprecision of the evaluated assay and the greater effect of lot-to-lot reagent variation at low troponin concentrations. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION PROSPERO registration number CRD42013003926.

## 66. Hepatic intra-arterial versus intravenous fotemustine in patients with liver metastases from uveal melanoma (EORTC 18021): a multicentric randomized trial.
BACKGROUND In uveal melanoma (UM) with metastatic disease limited to the liver, the effect of an intrahepatic treatment on survival is unknown. We investigated prospectively the efficacy and toxicity of hepatic intra-arterial (HIA) versus systemic (IV) fotemustine in patients with liver metastases from UM. PATIENTS AND METHODS Patients were randomly assigned to receive either IV or HIA fotemustine at 100 mg/m(2) on days 1, 8, 15 (and 22 in HIA arm only) as induction, and after a 5-week rest period every 3 weeks as maintenance. Primary end point was overall survival (OS). Response rate (RR), progression-free survival (PFS) and safety were secondary end points. RESULTS Accrual was stopped after randomization of 171 patients based on the results of a futility OS analysis. A total of 155 patients died and 16 were still alive [median follow-up 1.6 years (range 0.25-6 years)]. HIA did not improve OS (median 14.6 months) when compared with the IV arm (median 13.8 months), hazard ratio (HR) 1.09; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.79-1.50, log-rank P = 0.59. However, there was a significant benefit on PFS for HIA compared with IV with a median of 4.5 versus 3.5 months, respectively (HR 0.62; 95% CI 0.45-0.84, log-rank P = 0.002). The 1-year PFS rate was 24% in the HIA arm versus 8% in the IV arm. An improved RR was seen in the HIA (10.5%) compared with IV treatment (2.4%). In the IV arm, the most frequent grade ≥3 toxicity was thrombocytopenia (42.1%) and neutropenia (62.6%), compared with 21.2% and 28.7% in the HIA arm. The main grade ≥3 toxicity related to HIA was catheter complications (12%) and liver toxicity (4.5%) apart from two toxic deaths. CONCLUSION HIA treatment with fotemustine did not translate into an improved OS compared with IV treatment, despite better RR and PFS. Intrahepatic treatment should still be considered as experimental. EUDRACT NUMBER AND CLINICALTRIALSGOV IDENTIFIER 2004-002245-12 and NCT00110123.

## 67. The effect of mass screening on incidence and mortality of squamous and adenocarcinoma of cervix uteri.
OBJECTIVE To describe the efficacy of the Finnish mass screening program for cervical squamous carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, as reflected by changes of incidence and mortality rate. METHODS Cervical cancer incidence and mortality data were obtained from the Finnish Cancer Registry. Data were available from the year 1953, when the registry was established. The nationwide mass screening program in Finland was started in the mid-1960s. A centralized organization administers this program. Women age 30-60 years are notified for screening every 5 years. RESULTS The mean incidence of cervical carcinoma in the early 1960s was 15.4 per 10(5) woman-years. In 1991, it was only 2.7 per 10(5) woman-years. The mortality rate has decreased in the same proportion since the mass screening program. In the early 1960s, the mortality was 6.6 and in 1991 1.4 per 10(5) woman-years. However, the decrease of the incidence is seen almost exclusively in squamous cell carcinomas. The mortality caused by adenocarcinoma has decreased in screened birth cohorts, but the incidence rate has remained the same. CONCLUSIONS The Finnish mass screening program has been effective and its continuation is of utmost importance. In the future more attention should be given to glandular cell atypias in cervical smears. Thus, it might be possible to decrease the incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma.

## 68. Hepatitis C virus and blood transfusion: past and present risks.
The risk of HCV transmission by blood and blood products has been greatly reduced since the early 1980's. Selection of non-remunerated donors, donor selection to prevent HIV transmission, initial surrogate testing in some regions, and introduction of anti-HCV testing have all contributed to this. ALT surrogate testing has become obsolete since the introduction of anti-HCV testing. The residual risk of HCV transmission due to donations in the anti-HCV window period at present is about 1 in 100 000 transfusions of cellular products, and transmission of HCV by plasma products treated with modern inactivation methods such as solvent-detergent treatment, has not been reported. Hemovigilance programmes, which are presently being installed, will provide more data on the safety of blood transfusion. Introduction of HCV nucleic amplification technology (NAT) as a quality control of manufacturing pools for plasma products or as a form of blood donor screening by minipools is anticipated in many European countries for the coming year. Given industrial developments, NAT testing of individual blood donations may become available within the next 2 years. HCV NAT testing will further annihilate the residual risk, and the cost-effectiveness will become relatively low in comparison with other public health measures.

## 69. CI-994 (N-acetyl-dinaline) in combination with conventional anti-cancer agents is effective against acute myeloid leukemia in vitro and in vivo.
N-acetyl-dinaline (CI-994) is an investigational anti-cancer drug which inhibits histone deacetylases. We evaluated the interaction between CI-994 and conventional chemotherapeutics used in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in a rat model for AML and Brown Norway rat acute myelocytic leukemia (BNML). In vitro, CI-994 in combination with cytarabine (ara-C), daunorubicin and mitoxantrone, resulted in moderate synergism. In vivo, higher dosages of CI-994 induced complete remissions. CI-994/ara-C was very active against BNML. The combinations of CI-994/daunorubicin and CI-994/mitoxantrone were also active against BNML. This study demonstrates favorable in vitro and in vivo interactions between CI-994 and conventional anti-cancer agents used for the treatment of AML.

## 70. Microfluidic platform to evaluate migration of cells from patients with DYT1 dystonia.
BACKGROUND Microfluidic platforms for quantitative evaluation of cell biologic processes allow low cost and time efficient research studies of biological and pathological events, such as monitoring cell migration by real-time imaging. In healthy and disease states, cell migration is crucial in development and wound healing, as well as to maintain the body's homeostasis. NEW METHOD The microfluidic chambers allow precise measurements to investigate whether fibroblasts carrying a mutation in the TOR1A gene, underlying the hereditary neurologic disease--DYT1 dystonia, have decreased migration properties when compared to control cells. RESULTS We observed that fibroblasts from DYT1 patients showed abnormalities in basic features of cell migration, such as reduced velocity and persistence of movement. COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHOD The microfluidic method enabled us to demonstrate reduced polarization of the nucleus and abnormal orientation of nuclei and Golgi inside the moving DYT1 patient cells compared to control cells, as well as vectorial movement of single cells. CONCLUSION We report here different assays useful in determining various parameters of cell migration in DYT1 patient cells as a consequence of the TOR1A gene mutation, including a microfluidic platform, which provides a means to evaluate real-time vectorial movement with single cell resolution in a three-dimensional environment.

## 71. A molecular framework for plant regeneration.
Plants and some animals have a profound capacity to regenerate organs from adult tissues. Molecular mechanisms for regeneration have, however, been largely unexplored. Here we investigate a local regeneration response in Arabidopsis roots. Laser-induced wounding disrupts the flow of auxin-a cell-fate-instructive plant hormone-in root tips, and we demonstrate that resulting cell-fate changes require the PLETHORA, SHORTROOT, and SCARECROW transcription factors. These transcription factors regulate the expression and polar position of PIN auxin efflux-facilitating membrane proteins to reconstitute auxin transport in renewed root tips. Thus, a regeneration mechanism using embryonic root stem-cell patterning factors first responds to and subsequently stabilizes a new hormone distribution.

## 72. Treatment of antidepressant-associated sexual dysfunction with sildenafil: a randomized controlled trial.
CONTEXT Sexual dysfunction is a common adverse effect of antidepressants that frequently results in treatment noncompliance. OBJECTIVE To assess the efficacy of sildenafil citrate in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of selective and nonselective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI) antidepressants. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS Prospective, parallel-group, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted between November 1, 2000, and January 1, 2001, at 3 US university medical centers among 90 male outpatients (mean [SD] age, 45 [8] years) with major depression in remission and sexual dysfunction associated with SRI antidepressant treatment. INTERVENTION Patients were randomly assigned to take sildenafil (n = 45) or placebo (n = 45) at a flexible dose starting at 50 mg and adjustable to 100 mg before sexual activity for 6 weeks. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES The primary outcome measure was score on the Clinical Global Impression-Sexual Function (CGI-SF); secondary measures were scores on the International Index of Erectile Function, Arizona Sexual Experience Scale, Massachusetts General Hospital-Sexual Functioning Questionnaire, and Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). RESULTS Among the 90 randomized patients, 93% (83/89) of patients treated per protocol took at least 1 dose of study drug and 85% (76/89) completed week 6 end-point assessments with last observation carried forward analyses. At a CGI-SF score of 2 or lower, 54.5% (24/44) of sildenafil compared with 4.4% (2/45) of placebo patients were much or very much improved (P<.001). Erectile function, arousal, ejaculation, orgasm, and overall satisfaction domain measures improved significantly in sildenafil compared with placebo patients. Mean depression scores remained consistent with remission (HAM-D score < or =10) in both groups for the study duration. CONCLUSION In our study, sildenafil effectively improved erectile function and other aspects of sexual function in men with sexual dysfunction associated with the use of SRI antidepressants. These improvements may allow patients to maintain adherence with effective antidepressant treatment.

## 73. A brief analysis of clinical pharmacy interventions undertaken in an Australian teaching hospital.
Selected clinical pharmacy interventions undertaken during a 30-day data capture period were analysed, seeking to gain a greater understanding of the nature of the drug-related problems involved. Pharmacists were asked to record only interventions that were of potentially major significance. A total of 67 interventions were submitted for analysis. In 28 cases (41.7% of the initial total) the intervention reports were excluded from further analysis after initial review. For the remaining 39 interventions, 20 patients (51%) were under the care of a medical unit, and cardiovascular/antithrombotic agents accounted for 17 reports (43.5%). The majority of interventions were implemented at the time of inpatient medication order review by the clinical pharmacist (n=25, 64%). The most common category of drug-related problem addressed in the interventions related to the prescription of inappropriately high doses of the correct drug for the patient (n=17, 43.6%). Deficiencies in technical knowledge accounted for less than 25% of all cases.

## 74. Biological properties of herpes simplex virus 2 replication-defective mutant strains in a murine nasal infection model.
We used a mouse nasal model of herpes simplex virus 2 (HSV-2) infection to examine the biological properties of HSV-2 wild-type (wt), TK-negative, and replication-defective strains in vivo. Nasal septa tissue is the major site of wt viral replication post intranasal (i.n.) inoculation. The HSV-2 strain 186 syn(+)-1 wt virus caused lethal encephalitis at doses of 10(4) PFU and above per nostril, and at lower doses no neurons in the trigeminal ganglia were positive for the latency-associated transcript, indicating a lack of latent infection. The 186DeltaKpn TK-negative mutant virus replicated in nasal septa tissue but showed low-level replication in trigeminal ganglia at only one timepoint. In situ hybridization of trigeminal ganglia showed that the number of LAT-positive neurons was proportional to the inoculum dose from 10(3) to 10(6) PFU per nare. The replication-defective mutant virus 5BlacZ showed no replication in nasal septa tissue and no persistence of viral DNA at the inoculation site or the trigeminal ganglia. Nevertheless, inoculation of 5BlacZ or the double-mutant dl5-29 at distal sites reduced acute replication and latent infection of 186DeltaKpn following intranasal challenge. This infection model provides a biological system to test the properties of HSV-2 strains and shows that replication-defective mutant strains do not persist at sites of inoculation or in sensory ganglia but can induce immune protection that reduces the latent viral load of a challenge virus.

## 75. Sustained survivin expression from OX40 costimulatory signals drives T cell clonal expansion.
Sustained signaling from the T cell receptor (TCR) and costimulatory molecules is thought necessary for generating high numbers of effector T cells. Here, we show that Survivin is controlled in peripheral T cells by OX40 cosignaling via sustained PI3k and PKB activation. Survivin is induced by OX40 independent of mitotic progression in late G1, and blocking Survivin suppresses S-phase transition and division of T cells and leads to apoptosis. Moreover, Survivin expression alone is sufficient to restore proliferation and to antagonize apoptosis in costimulation-deficient T cells and can rescue T cell expansion in vivo. Survivin allows effector T cells to accumulate in large numbers, but Bcl-2 family proteins are required for T cell survival after the phase of active division. Thus, sustained Survivin expression from costimulatory signaling maintains T cell division over time and regulates the extent of clonal expansion.

## 76. Dual role of the IL-12/IFN-gamma axis in the development of autoimmune myocarditis: induction by IL-12 and protection by IFN-gamma.
IL-12 and IFN-gamma positively regulate each other and type 1 inflammatory responses, which are believed to cause tissue damage in autoimmune diseases. We investigated the role of the IL-12/IFN-gamma (Th1) axis in the development of autoimmune myocarditis. IL-12p40-deficient mice on a susceptible background resisted myocarditis. In the absence of IL-12, autospecific CD4(+) T cells proliferated poorly and showed increased Th2 cytokine responses. However, IFN-gamma-deficient mice developed fatal autoimmune disease, and blockade of IL-4R signaling did not confer susceptibility to myocarditis in IL-12p40-deficient mice, demonstrating that IL-12 triggers autoimmunity by a mechanism independent of the effector cytokines IFN-gamma and IL-4. In conclusion, our results suggest that the IL-12/IFN-gamma axis is a double-edged sword for the development of autoimmune myocarditis. Although IL-12 mediates disease by induction/expansion of Th1-type cells, IFN-gamma production from these cells limits disease progression.

## 77. An antimicrobial protein of the gut symbiont Bacteroides fragilis with a MACPF domain of host immune proteins.
Bacteroidales are the most abundant Gram-negative bacteria of the human intestinal microbiota comprising more than half of the bacteria in many individuals. Some of the factors that these bacteria use to establish and maintain themselves in this ecosystem are beginning to be identified. However, ecological competition, especially interference competition where one organism directly harms another, is largely unexplored. To begin to understand the relevance of this ecological principle as it applies to these abundant gut bacteria and factors that may promote such competition, we screened Bacteroides fragilis for the production of antimicrobial molecules. We found that the production of extracellularly secreted antimicrobial molecules is widespread in this species. The first identified molecule, described in this manuscript, contains a membrane attack complex/perforin (MACPF) domain present in host immune molecules that kill bacteria and virally infected cells by pore formation, and mutations affecting key residues of this domain abrogated its activity. This antimicrobial molecule, termed BSAP-1, is secreted from the cell in outer membrane vesicles and no additional proteins are required for its secretion, processing or immunity of the producing cell. This study provides the first insight into secreted molecules that promote competitive interference among Bacteroidales strains of the human gut.

## 78. Immunoproteasome and LMP2 polymorphism in aged and Alzheimer's disease brains.
In this study, we investigated the presence and role of immunoproteasome and its LMP2 subunit polymorphism at codon 60 in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Immunoproteasome was present in brain areas such as hippocampus and cerebellum and localized in neurons, astrocytes and endothelial cells. A higher expression of immunoproteasome was found in brain of AD patients than in brain of non-demented elderly, being its expression in young brain negligible or absent. Furthermore, AD affected regions showed a partial decrease in proteasome trypsin-like activity. The study of LMP2 polymorphism (R/H) showed that it does not influence LMP2 expression (neither the mRNA nor mature protein) in brain tissue. However, control brain areas of AD patients carrying the RR genotype showed an increased proteasome activity in comparison with RH carriers. To test whether this effect of the genotype might be related to AD onset we performed a genetic study, which allowed us to exclude an association of LMP2 codon 60 polymorphism with AD onset, despite its influence on the proteasome activity in human brain.

## 79. Diagnosis of rotator cuff tears.
Rotator cuff tears account for almost 50% of major shoulder injuries but are sometimes difficult to diagnose. To aid diagnosis, we did a prospective study, comparing results of 23 clinical tests from 400 patients with and without rotator cuff tears. Three simple tests were predictive for rotator cuff tear: supraspinatus weakness, weakness in external rotation, and impingement. When all three were positive, or if two tests were positive and the patient was aged 60 or older, the individual had a 98% chance of having a rotator cuff tear; combined absence of these features excluded this diagnosis.

## 80. 131-I radioiodine therapy for hyperthyroidism in patients with Graves' disease, uninodular goitre and multinodular goitre.
We studied 201 consecutive patients who received a relatively fixed dose of radioiodine for the treatment of hyperthyroidism between the years 1981-6. Patients with Graves' disease (170) were initially treated with a mean (SE) dose of 369 (10) MBq 131-I with a remission rate of 94% at 6 months and a cumulative relapse rate of 12% at one year and 21% at 5 years. The cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism was 26% at 3 months, 55% at 6 months, 61% at 1 year and 66% at 5 years. Patients with a uninodular goitre (10) were initially treated with a mean (SE) dose of 438 (85) MBq 131-I with a remission rate of 100% at 6 months, without relapse at 1 year but relapsing in 17% at 5 years. The cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism was 26% at 3 months, 30% at 6 months, 40% at 1 year and 40% at 5 years. Patients with a multinodular goitre (21) were initially treated with a mean (SE) dose of 613 (77) MBq 131-I with a remission rate of 79% at 6 months and a cumulative relapse rate of 26% at 1 year and 39% at 5 years. The cumulative incidence of hypothyroidism was 5% at 3 months, 14% at 6 months, 24% at 1 year and 24% at 5 years.

## 81. Broad antiretroviral defence by human APOBEC3G through lethal editing of nascent reverse transcripts
Viral replication usually requires that innate intracellular lines of defence be overcome, a task usually accomplished by specialized viral gene products. The virion infectivity factor (Vif) protein of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is required during the late stages of viral production to counter the antiviral activity of APOBEC3G (apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G; also known as CEM15), a protein expressed notably in human T lymphocytes. When produced in the presence of APOBEC3G, vif-defective virus is non-infectious. APOBEC3G is closely related to APOBEC1, the central component of an RNA-editing complex that deaminates a cytosine residue in apoB messenger RNA. APOBEC family members also have potent DNA mutator activity through dC deamination; however, whether the editing potential of APOBEC3G has any relevance to HIV inhibition is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that it does, as APOBEC3G exerts its antiviral effect during reverse transcription to trigger G-to-A hypermutation in the nascent retroviral DNA. We also find that APOBEC3G can act on a broad range of retroviruses in addition to HIV, suggesting that hypermutation by editing is a general innate defence mechanism against this important group of pathogens.

## 82. Somatic sex identity is cell-autonomous in the chicken
In the mammalian model of sex determination, embryos are considered to be sexually indifferent until the transient action of a sex-determining gene initiates gonadal differentiation. Although this model is thought to apply to all vertebrates, this has yet to be established. Here we have examined three lateral gynandromorph chickens (a rare, naturally occurring phenomenon in which one side of the animal appears male and the other female) to investigate the sex-determining mechanism in birds. These studies demonstrated that gynandromorph birds are genuine male:female chimaeras, and indicated that male and female avian somatic cells may have an inherent sex identity. To test this hypothesis, we transplanted presumptive mesoderm between embryos of reciprocal sexes to generate embryos containing male:female chimaeric gonads. In contrast to the outcome for mammalian mixed-sex chimaeras, in chicken mixed-sex chimaeras the donor cells were excluded from the functional structures of the host gonad. In an example where female tissue was transplanted into a male host, donor cells contributing to the developing testis retained a female identity and expressed a marker of female function. Our study demonstrates that avian somatic cells possess an inherent sex identity and that, in birds, sexual differentiation is substantively cell autonomous.

## 83. Gain of toxic Apolipoprotein E4 effects in Human iPSC-Derived Neurons Is Ameliorated by a Small-Molecule Structure Corrector
Efforts to develop drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown promise in animal studies, only to fail in human trials, suggesting a pressing need to study AD in human model systems. Using human neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells that expressed apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), a variant of the APOE gene product and the major genetic risk factor for AD, we demonstrated that ApoE4-expressing neurons had higher levels of tau phosphorylation, unrelated to their increased production of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides, and that they displayed GABAergic neuron degeneration. ApoE4 increased Aβ production in human, but not in mouse, neurons. Converting ApoE4 to ApoE3 by gene editing rescued these phenotypes, indicating the specific effects of ApoE4. Neurons that lacked APOE behaved similarly to those expressing ApoE3, and the introduction of ApoE4 expression recapitulated the pathological phenotypes, suggesting a gain of toxic effects from ApoE4. Treatment of ApoE4-expressing neurons with a small-molecule structure corrector ameliorated the detrimental effects, thus showing that correcting the pathogenic conformation of ApoE4 is a viable therapeutic approach for ApoE4-related AD.

## 84. High-Throughput Genetic Screens Identify a Large and Diverse Collection of New Sporulation Genes in Bacillus subtilis
The differentiation of the bacterium Bacillus subtilis into a dormant spore is among the most well-characterized developmental pathways in biology. Classical genetic screens performed over the past half century identified scores of factors involved in every step of this morphological process. More recently, transcriptional profiling uncovered additional sporulation-induced genes required for successful spore development. Here, we used transposon-sequencing (Tn-seq) to assess whether there were any sporulation genes left to be discovered. Our screen identified 133 out of the 148 genes with known sporulation defects. Surprisingly, we discovered 24 additional genes that had not been previously implicated in spore formation. To investigate their functions, we used fluorescence microscopy to survey early, middle, and late stages of differentiation of null mutants from the B. subtilis ordered knockout collection. This analysis identified mutants that are delayed in the initiation of sporulation, defective in membrane remodeling, and impaired in spore maturation. Several mutants had novel sporulation phenotypes. We performed in-depth characterization of two new factors that participate in cell-cell signaling pathways during sporulation. One (SpoIIT) functions in the activation of σE in the mother cell; the other (SpoIIIL) is required for σG activity in the forespore. Our analysis also revealed that as many as 36 sporulation-induced genes with no previously reported mutant phenotypes are required for timely spore maturation. Finally, we discovered a large set of transposon insertions that trigger premature initiation of sporulation. Our results highlight the power of Tn-seq for the discovery of new genes and novel pathways in sporulation and, combined with the recently completed null mutant collection, open the door for similar screens in other, less well-characterized processes.

## 85. Metformin reverses established lung fibrosis in a bleomycin model
Fibrosis is a pathological result of a dysfunctional repair response to tissue injury and occurs in a number of organs, including the lungs1. Cellular metabolism regulates tissue repair and remodelling responses to injury2-4. AMPK is a critical sensor of cellular bioenergetics and controls the switch from anabolic to catabolic metabolism5. However, the role of AMPK in fibrosis is not well understood. Here, we demonstrate that in humans with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and in an experimental mouse model of lung fibrosis, AMPK activity is lower in fibrotic regions associated with metabolically active and apoptosis-resistant myofibroblasts. Pharmacological activation of AMPK in myofibroblasts from lungs of humans with IPF display lower fibrotic activity, along with enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis and normalization of sensitivity to apoptosis. In a bleomycin model of lung fibrosis in mice, metformin therapeutically accelerates the resolution of well-established fibrosis in an AMPK-dependent manner. These studies implicate deficient AMPK activation in non-resolving, pathologic fibrotic processes, and support a role for metformin (or other AMPK activators) to reverse established fibrosis by facilitating deactivation and apoptosis of myofibroblasts.

## 86. Shaping the landscape of the Escherichia coli chromosome: replication-transcription encounters in cells with an ectopic replication origin
Each cell division requires the unwinding of millions of DNA base pairs to allow chromosome duplication and gene transcription. As DNA replication and transcription share the same template, conflicts between both processes are unavoidable and head-on collisions are thought to be particularly problematic. Surprisingly, a recent study reported unperturbed cell cycle progression in Escherichia coli cells with an ectopic replication origin in which highly transcribed rrn operons were forced to be replicated opposite to normal. In this study we have re-generated a similar strain and found the doubling time to be twice that of normal cells. Replication profiles of this background revealed significant deviations in comparison to wild-type profiles, particularly in highly transcribed regions and the termination area. These deviations were alleviated by mutations that either inactivate the termination area or destabilise RNA polymerase complexes and allow their easier displacement by replication forks. Our data demonstrate that head-on replication-transcription conflicts are highly problematic. Indeed, analysis of the replication profile of the previously published E. coli construct revealed a chromosomal rearrangement that alleviates replication-transcription conflicts in an intriguingly simple way. Our data support the idea that avoiding head-on collisions has significantly contributed to shaping the distinct architecture of bacterial chromosomes.

## 87. Autoimmunity due to molecular mimicry as a cause of neurological disease
One hypothesis that couples infection with autoimmune disease is molecular mimicry. Molecular mimicry is characterized by an immune response to an environmental agent that cross-reacts with a host antigen, resulting in disease. This hypothesis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetes, lupus and multiple sclerosis (MS). There is limited direct evidence linking causative agents with pathogenic immune reactions in these diseases. Our study establishes a clear link between viral infection, autoimmunity and neurological disease in humans. As a model for molecular mimicry, we studied patients with human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP), a disease that can be indistinguishable from MS (refs. 5,6,7). HAM/TSP patients develop antibodies to neurons. We hypothesized these antibodies would identify a central nervous system (CNS) autoantigen. Immunoglobulin G isolated from HAM/TSP patients identified heterogeneous nuclear ribonuclear protein-A1 (hnRNP-A1) as the autoantigen. Antibodies to hnRNP-A1 cross-reacted with HTLV-1-tax, the immune response to which is associated with HAM/TSP (refs. 5,9). Immunoglobulin G specifically stained human Betz cells, whose axons are preferentially damaged. Infusion of autoantibodies in brain sections inhibited neuronal firing, indicative of their pathogenic nature. These data demonstrate the importance of molecular mimicry between an infecting agent and hnRNP-A1 in autoimmune disease of the CNS.

## 88. Prostaglandin E2 promotes intestinal tumor growth via DNA methylation
Although aberrant DNA methylation is considered to be one of the key ways by which tumor-suppressor and DNA-repair genes are silenced during tumor initiation and progression, the mechanisms underlying DNA methylation alterations in cancer remain unclear. Here we show that prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) silences certain tumor-suppressor and DNA-repair genes through DNA methylation to promote tumor growth. These findings uncover a previously unrecognized role for PGE(2) in the promotion of tumor progression.

## 89. Light Activation of Channelrhodopsin-2 in Excitable Cells of Caenorhabditis elegans Triggers Rapid Behavioral Responses
For studying the function of specific neurons in their native circuitry, it is desired to precisely control their activity. This often requires dissection to allow accurate electrical stimulation or neurotransmitter application , and it is thus inherently difficult in live animals, especially in small model organisms. Here, we employed channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), a directly light-gated cation channel from the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, in excitable cells of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, to trigger specific behaviors, simply by illumination. Channelrhodopsins are 7-transmembrane-helix proteins that resemble the light-driven proton pump bacteriorhodopsin , and they also utilize the chromophore all-trans retinal, but to open an intrinsic cation pore. In muscle cells, light-activated ChR2 evoked strong, simultaneous contractions, which were reduced in the background of mutated L-type, voltage-gated Ca2+-channels (VGCCs) and ryanodine receptors (RyRs). Electrophysiological analysis demonstrated rapid inward currents that persisted as long as the illumination. When ChR2 was expressed in mechanosensory neurons, light evoked withdrawal behaviors that are normally elicited by mechanical stimulation. Furthermore, ChR2 enabled activity of these neurons in mutants lacking the MEC-4/MEC-10 mechanosensory ion channel . Thus, specific neurons or muscles expressing ChR2 can be quickly and reversibly activated by light in live and behaving, as well as dissected, animals.

## 90. To err is human. Building a safer health system
Human beings, make errors Healthcare Services is a complex industry prone to accidents. The IOM Report [1] points out that some systems are more prone to accidents than others. When a system fails there are often multiple faults. In healthcare,human errors are the greatest contributors to accidents,however when human error is to blame it often depends upon failures within the system. These failures exists in the system before the error occurs, the same as with latent errors which are difficult to identify since they may be hidden in computers or within the various managerial layers. Most of the errors can be prevented by designing systems that make it hard for people to do the wrong thing and easy for people to do the right thing. In healthcare, this means designing processes that are able to ensure that patients are safe from accidental injury. As healthcare and the system that delivers it become more complex, the opportunities for errors abound. The IOM report “To Err is Human” proposes an approach for reducing medical errors and improving patient safety. The environment within which this occurs has a critical influence on quality. This influence may contain two dimensions; the first consists of the domain of quality which includes the practice that is consistent with current medical knowledge. The second dimension consists of forces in the external environment that can drive quality improvement in the delivery system. Although the risk of dying as a result of a medical error, far surpasses the risk of dying in an airline accident, public attention has been more focused on improving safety in the airline industry than in healthcare systems. Because of the absence of standardized nomenclature, it is important to define what an error is and what is an adverse event, the IOM Report defines them in the following way: “An error is the failure of a planned action to be completed as intended or the use of a wrong plan to achieve an aim. ” An adverse event is an injury caused by medical management rather than the underlying condition of the patient. An adverse event attributable to error is a “preventable adverse event”.

## 91. A Century of Cholesterol and Coronaries: From Plaques to Genes to Statins
One-fourth of all deaths in industrialized countries result from coronary heart disease. A century of research has revealed the essential causative agent: cholesterol-carrying low-density lipoprotein (LDL). LDL is controlled by specific receptors (LDLRs) in liver that remove it from blood. Mutations that eliminate LDLRs raise LDL and cause heart attacks in childhood, whereas mutations that raise LDLRs reduce LDL and diminish heart attacks. If we are to eliminate coronary disease, lowering LDL should be the primary goal. Effective means to achieve this goal are currently available. The key questions are: who to treat, when to treat, and how long to treat.

## 92. The Utilization of Extracellular Proteins as Nutrients Is Suppressed by mTORC1
Despite being surrounded by diverse nutrients, mammalian cells preferentially metabolize glucose and free amino acids. Recently, Ras-induced macropinocytosis of extracellular proteins was shown to reduce a transformed cell's dependence on extracellular glutamine. Here, we demonstrate that protein macropinocytosis can also serve as an essential amino acid source. Lysosomal degradation of extracellular proteins can sustain cell survival and induce activation of mTORC1 but fails to elicit significant cell accumulation. Unlike its growth-promoting activity under amino-acid-replete conditions, we discovered that mTORC1 activation suppresses proliferation when cells rely on extracellular proteins as an amino acid source. Inhibiting mTORC1 results in increased catabolism of endocytosed proteins and enhances cell proliferation during nutrient-depleted conditions in vitro and within vascularly compromised tumors in vivo. Thus, by preventing nutritional consumption of extracellular proteins, mTORC1 couples growth to availability of free amino acids. These results may have important implications for the use of mTOR inhibitors as therapeutics.

## 93. Mitochondria: Dynamic Organelles in Disease, Aging, and Development
Mitochondria are the primary energy-generating system in most eukaryotic cells. Additionally, they participate in intermediary metabolism, calcium signaling, and apoptosis. Given these well-established functions, it might be expected that mitochondrial dysfunction would give rise to a simple and predictable set of defects in all tissues. However, mitochondrial dysfunction has pleiotropic effects in multicellular organisms. Clearly, much about the basic biology of mitochondria remains to be understood. Here we discuss recent work that suggests that the dynamics (fusion and fission) of these organelles is important in development and disease.

## 94. Persistence of HIV-1 Receptor-Positive Cells after HSV-2 Reactivation: A Potential Mechanism for Increased HIV-1 Acquisition
To explore the mechanism by which herpes simplex virus (HSV)-2 infection is related to HIV-1 acquisition, we conducted in situ analysis of the cellular infiltrate from sequential biopsies of HSV-2 lesions from patients on and off antiviral therapy. CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells and a mixed population of plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells (DCs), including cells expressing the C-type lectin receptor DC-SIGN, persisted at sites of HSV-2 reactivation for months after healing, even with daily antiviral therapy. The CD4(+) T cells that persisted reacted to HSV-2 antigen, were enriched for expression of the chemokine receptor CCR5, and were contiguous to DCs expressing the interleukin-3 receptor CD123 or DC-SIGN. Ex vivo infection with a CCR5-tropic strain of HIV-1 revealed greater concentrations of integrated HIV-1 DNA in cells derived from healed genital lesion biopsies than in cells from control skin biopsies. The persistence and enrichment of HIV receptor-positive inflammatory cells in the genitalia help explain the inability of anti-HSV-2 therapy to reduce HIV acquisition.

## 95. Cohesins and condensins orchestrate the 4D dynamics of yeast chromosomes during the cell cycle
Duplication and segregation of chromosomes involves dynamic reorganization of their internal structure by conserved architectural proteins, including the structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC) complexes cohesin and condensin. Despite active investigation of the roles of these factors, a genome-wide view of dynamic chromosome architecture at both small and large scale during cell division is still missing. Here, we report the first comprehensive 4D analysis of the higher-order organization of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome throughout the cell cycle and investigate the roles of SMC complexes in controlling structural transitions. During replication, cohesion establishment promotes numerous long-range intra-chromosomal contacts and correlates with the individualization of chromosomes, which culminates at metaphase. In anaphase, mitotic chromosomes are abruptly reorganized depending on mechanical forces exerted by the mitotic spindle. Formation of a condensin-dependent loop bridging the centromere cluster with the rDNA loci suggests that condensin-mediated forces may also directly facilitate segregation. This work therefore comprehensively recapitulates cell cycle-dependent chromosome dynamics in a unicellular eukaryote, but also unveils new features of chromosome structural reorganization during highly conserved stages of cell division.

## 96. PU.1-mediated upregulation of CSF1R is crucial for leukemia stem cell potential induced by MOZ-TIF2
Leukemias and other cancers possess self-renewing stem cells that help to maintain the cancer. Cancer stem cell eradication is thought to be crucial for successful anticancer therapy. Using an acute myeloid leukemia (AML) model induced by the leukemia-associated monocytic leukemia zinc finger (MOZ)-TIF2 fusion protein, we show here that AML can be cured by the ablation of leukemia stem cells. The MOZ fusion proteins MOZ-TIF2 and MOZ-CBP interacted with the transcription factor PU.1 to stimulate the expression of macrophage colony–stimulating factor receptor (CSF1R, also known as M-CSFR, c-FMS or CD115). Studies using PU.1-deficient mice showed that PU.1 is essential for the ability of MOZ-TIF2 to establish and maintain AML stem cells. Cells expressing high amounts of CSF1R (CSF1Rhigh cells), but not those expressing low amounts of CSF1R (CSF1Rlow cells), showed potent leukemia-initiating activity. Using transgenic mice expressing a drug-inducible suicide gene controlled by the CSF1R promoter, we cured AML by ablation of CSF1Rhigh cells. Moreover, induction of AML was suppressed in CSF1R-deficient mice and CSF1R inhibitors slowed the progression of MOZ-TIF2–induced leukemia. Thus, in this subtype of AML, leukemia stem cells are contained within the CSF1Rhigh cell population, and we suggest that targeting of PU.1-mediated upregulation of CSF1R expression might be a useful therapeutic approach.

## 97. Differential innate immune response programs in neuronal subtypes determine susceptibility to infection in the brain by positive stranded RNA viruses
Although susceptibility of neurons in the brain to microbial infection is a major determinant of clinical outcome, little is known about the molecular factors governing this vulnerability. Here we show that two types of neurons from distinct brain regions showed differential permissivity to replication of several positive-stranded RNA viruses. Granule cell neurons of the cerebellum and cortical neurons from the cerebral cortex have unique innate immune programs that confer differential susceptibility to viral infection ex vivo and in vivo. By transducing cortical neurons with genes that were expressed more highly in granule cell neurons, we identified three interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs; Ifi27, Irg1 and Rsad2 (also known as Viperin)) that mediated the antiviral effects against different neurotropic viruses. Moreover, we found that the epigenetic state and microRNA (miRNA)-mediated regulation of ISGs correlates with enhanced antiviral response in granule cell neurons. Thus, neurons from evolutionarily distinct brain regions have unique innate immune signatures, which probably contribute to their relative permissiveness to infection.

## 98. Senescent Cells, Tumor Suppression, and Organismal Aging: Good Citizens, Bad Neighbors
Cells from organisms with renewable tissues can permanently withdraw from the cell cycle in response to diverse stress, including dysfunctional telomeres, DNA damage, strong mitogenic signals, and disrupted chromatin. This response, termed cellular senescence, is controlled by the p53 and RB tumor suppressor proteins and constitutes a potent anticancer mechanism. Nonetheless, senescent cells acquire phenotypic changes that may contribute to aging and certain age-related diseases, including late-life cancer. Thus, the senescence response may be antagonistically pleiotropic, promoting early-life survival by curtailing the development of cancer but eventually limiting longevity as dysfunctional senescent cells accumulate.

## 99. Intracoronary autologous cardiac progenitor cell transfer in patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome: the TICAP prospective phase 1 controlled trial.
RATIONALE Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) remains a lethal congenital cardiac defect. Recent studies have suggested that intracoronary administration of autologous cardiosphere-derived cells (CDCs) may improve ventricular function. OBJECTIVE The aim of this study was to test whether intracoronary delivery of CDCs is feasible and safe in patients with hypoplastic left heart syndrome. METHODS AND RESULTS Between January 5, 2011, and January 16, 2012, 14 patients (1.8±1.5 years) were prospectively assigned to receive intracoronary infusion of autologous CDCs 33.4±8.1 days after staged procedures (n=7), followed by 7 controls with standard palliation alone. The primary end point was to assess the safety, and the secondary end point included the preliminary efficacy to verify the right ventricular ejection fraction improvements between baseline and 3 months. Manufacturing and intracoronary delivery of CDCs were feasible, and no serious adverse events were reported within the 18-month follow-up. Patients treated with CDCs showed right ventricular ejection fraction improvement from baseline to 3-month follow-up (46.9%±4.6% to 52.1%±2.4%; P=0.008). Compared with controls at 18 months, cardiac MRI analysis of CDC-treated patients showed a higher right ventricular ejection fraction (31.5%±6.8% versus 40.4%±7.6%; P=0.049), improved somatic growth (P=0.0005), reduced heart failure status (P=0.003), and lower incidence of coil occlusion for collaterals (P=0.007). CONCLUSIONS Intracoronary infusion of autologous CDCs seems to be feasible and safe in children with hypoplastic left heart syndrome after staged surgery. Large phase 2 trials are warranted to examine the potential effects of cardiac function improvements and the long-term benefits of clinical outcomes. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION URL http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01273857.

## 100. Cold Exposure Promotes Atherosclerotic Plaque Growth and Instability via UCP1-Dependent Lipolysis
Molecular mechanisms underlying the cold-associated high cardiovascular risk remain unknown. Here, we show that the cold-triggered food-intake-independent lipolysis significantly increased plasma levels of small low-density lipoprotein (LDL) remnants, leading to accelerated development of atherosclerotic lesions in mice. In two genetic mouse knockout models (apolipoprotein E(-/-) [ApoE(-/-)] and LDL receptor(-/-) [Ldlr(-/-)] mice), persistent cold exposure stimulated atherosclerotic plaque growth by increasing lipid deposition. Furthermore, marked increase of inflammatory cells and plaque-associated microvessels were detected in the cold-acclimated ApoE(-/-) and Ldlr(-/-) mice, leading to plaque instability. Deletion of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1), a key mitochondrial protein involved in thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue (BAT), in the ApoE(-/-) strain completely protected mice from the cold-induced atherosclerotic lesions. Cold acclimation markedly reduced plasma levels of adiponectin, and systemic delivery of adiponectin protected ApoE(-/-) mice from plaque development. These findings provide mechanistic insights on low-temperature-associated cardiovascular risks.

